                          Revision history for
                         Trade Wars Game Server


  v1.02.01

  v1.01.01

  Made a change to the Alien Manager server setup.  I decided the "Enabled/Disabled" setting
  for alien races was redundant.  Now, if the race has been enabled in the TEDIT Gold editor,
  a server will load in the Alien Manager automatically.  This means that the TEDIT Gold
  Race editor Active flag is now the Alien Manager server Enabled flag.
  
  I reorganized and added some fields to the Server tab of the Configuration
  area.

    The priority can be set by the gameop.  The default (if the server has
    proper security clearence) is high priority which allows the server to
    stay well ahead of the games that are running in normal priority.  You
    can adjust this to all possible priority levels, but it is highly
    recommended that you avoid setting this to real-time.  This priority
    is typically reserved for the operating system functions.

    Added the ability to select between IP dotted format and name address
    format for server addresses.  The Server pulldown contains IP and Name
    to switch between the two.

    Game Port and Admin Port are now lists instead of simple edit fields.
    The game list includes the three main port numbers for games (default
    telnet port 23, default RLogin port 513, and recommended custom port 2002)
    plus a history of other port numbers that have been specified.  Similarly,
    the admin list includes the custom Admin port of 2003 and a history of
    others that have been specified.

    Next to the game port, you can select from a list of protocols.  The
    allowed protocols at this time are telnet and rlogin.  RLogin was added
    to allow BBSs to pass the user login to TWGS.  This keeps users from
    creating multiple TWGS game accounts from a single BBS acount.

    Admin port protocol is limited to telnet at this time.


  In relation to RLogin support, the game menu now tracks players by name
  when RLogin is being used.  This allows players to view other players
  online by their BBS name and see what game they are currently in.  This
  also allows the gameop to track the player by name using the spy window.

  Changes to Command Center include:

    TWCC attempts to determine if a game has valid game data and makes
    suggestions about what actions are allowed or discouraged.  For example,
    trying to bigbang a game with valid data results in a warning dialog.
    Also, you cannot run TW2002, TEDIT, or EXTERN on games that do not have
    valid data.

    The error logs feature now brings error logs into a windows-based viewer.
    When you click on the "Error Log" button, it will open the viewer with
    the log corresponding to the game that is selected in the TWCC game list.
    While in the viewer, you may open and close error logs from all of the
    active games.  You may search the log data and also copy data into the
    clipboard.

    A new field exists for the gameop's game name when running TWCC Trade Wars
    sessions.  This allows the gameop to jump into a game without providing
    the user login name.  This name will persist beyond the current session.

  Using the same detection that TWCC uses to determine if a game is valid,
  the server will not display a game with invalid data files to the players.
  This means that a game that is missing one or more of its critical files
  (it doesn't test to see if they are corrupt) will not be available for the
  players to play.

  TWCC sessions include the name of the game on the window caption.

  Spy window now offers a list of nodes that may include the user name if
  the connection mode was RLogin.  This replaces the "Next Node" button as
  the means of selecting a node to monitor.

  Added context-sensitive help to the server.  Right-clicking most items will
  bring up a "What's This" option for displaying information.  Soon, a full
  help file will be included to explain some of the more subtle features of
  the TWGS ;)

  Changed Spy mode to a console window.  By default, the console window will
  rely on ANSI.SYS for color output.  A setting called "Spy uses ANSI codes"
  can be used to disable this behavior and force TWGS to paint the console
  manually.  You are encouraged to load ANSI.SYS in your CONFIG.SYS file because
  the screen updates are much more efficient in ANSI mode.

  The Spy window is gone and has been replaced by the Spy node selection box on
  the main server window.

  Changed Spy mode back to a GUI.  Windows consoles are a pain in the arse.
  The spy window selection list has been moved back to the Spy window.

  Admin connections are now allowed to start game sessions.  They will be given
  GAMEOP status in these games.

  Added a ? icon for more obvious context-sensitive help.

  The minimize to tray feature is back

  The spy node list now lists the location of the player (Menu or game letter)

  Game and Admin IP lists now include a "Local Only" check box.  Using this box,
  you can easily specify that the server should only allow local connections.
  This setting is separate from the IP list, so turning it on won't effect the
  list of IPs that you have built.  You can toggle back to the list at any time.

  Added an Admin Remote Command menu.  From this menu, the aministrator can
  do things like cycle the server, shut the server down (dangerous), disable/
  enable logins, disable/enable the Alien Manager, view stats, run external
  processing.  None of these are dangerous enough to require a password
  (in my opinion), but I'll add that if it becomes necessary.

  Wrote a testing robot that runs from a client machine and continuously starts sessions,
  spawns games, moves around the TW game, and exits.  Running multiple instances of this
  gives the server a heavy stress test and has allowed me to pinpoint some otherwise
  hidden problems.

  When the TWGS icon is clicked, instead of starting a new instance of the server,
  the active server is brought into focus.

  TWGS is now 100% 32 bit!  TW2002, TEDIT, EXTERN, BIGBANG and NONPSERV have
  been compiled in 32 bit Delphi.  Aside from the obvious performance benefits,
  the following result from this change:

    Win95/98 server is not limited to 16 nodes.  Up to 100 nodes can be run
    in Win95/98 same as WinNT.

    There is no longer a "Run in separate VM" option for either game or alien
    server sessions.

    Command Center runs a program called TWShell that connects to the game,
    editor, bigbang or extern via TCP/IP and runs in a windows GUI.  Previous
    versions ran a 16 bit DOS version in a console.

  You now have the option of running TWGS with the command line parameter of
  RESTART.  Doing so will cause the currently running TWGS to shutdown and the
  new instance to start in its place.  This is necessary as a way to allow you
  to restart the server automatically.

  Revised TWGS menu code.  The new approach should be more robust and slightly
  less efficient.

  Removed 200 connection demo mode restriction.  Instead, games and tedit sessions
  are limited to 3 minutes each.  Also, removed 1 node demo limitation and expanded
  it to 4 nodes.  The new unregistered mode, then, allows up to 4 players on at once
  remotely, but only for 3 minutes before being disconnected.  Unlimited TWCC access
  is allowed.

  Bugs fixed:

    Addressed problems with spawning TWCC sessions under WinNT.  I wrote an
    entirely new system for spawning these sessions so I am hoping that
    the problems will disappear.

    Fixed a bug with the Spy window.  One of the ANSI displays tended to send
    an ANSI sequences that was split between two strings causing the ANSI
    emulation to hang.  It can now handle this situation.

    Fixed a bug that was causing some disconnects to leave a telnet or other
    client hanging as if the connection was still established.  I now use the
    proper shutdown command instead of hard disconnect.

    Fixed a bug that was causing alien race servers to stop loading if any
    of them were not marked as running.

    Fixed a problem with multithread access to shared server resources.  When more than
    one session attempted access to these resources at the same time, resource corruption
    resulted.  I have synchronized all threaded access to shared server resources and have
    done thorough stress-testing to see that the server is stable.

    Fixed a bug that causes EXTERN to occassionaly fail to run.

    Fixed a bug that caused some configuration fields to be altered as a side effect of certain
    functions.  The result of this bug was that certain TWGS operations no longer functioned, for
    example, the local Command Center icons wouldn't work, the user name wouldn't be passed to the
    game, etc.

    Fixed a bug that caused WG3 standard RLogin connections to send the player directly into one of
    the games.  The server now properly parses the RLogin parameters.

    Fixed a bug that was causing extern to stop running.

    Recompiled server under Delphi 4 to fix memory consumption bug with Delphi 2
    compiler

    Added Banned IP list

    Added node-specific commands to grid view, accessible by right-clicking a node.
    Commands are disconnect node, ban IP and spy.

  1.01.25 -

    Added 1 second between commands for TWGS main menu to keep players from
    hammering the server.

  1.01.27 -

    Removed resource locking code from monitor to make it more efficient.

  1.01.28 -

    Nothing of note

  1.01.29 -

    Optimized menu display code.

    Added Total Server Connections, a value that tracks connections since the
    server first went online.  Under Configure, Server, you may specify the
    number of connections to start tallying from (in case there was a reinstall)
    as well as the start date for tallying.

    Added Scheduler to allow gameops to schedule applications that must run
    hourly, daily, or weekly.  There is an option to put the server into offline
    mode during a scheduled process, and you can specify how much delay to give
    to players, and what message to send to them.

    Added status line to main monitoring screen.

    Added "Startup Mode" to server configuration.  If set to Online, server comes
    online when TWGS is started.  When set to Offline, server remains offline
    until manually started.  Default is Online.

    Implemented time-based log file and added player activity tracing.

    Login name is now required in TWGS.

  1.01.30 -

    Games marked as "inactive" can now be accessed from the remote adminstration
    connection.  This will allow a gameop to edit and test a game remotely before
    it becomes available to players.

    Admin connection now lists IP with players and admins online.

    Added Enter TW2002/Gold Codes option to Command Center and TWGS Configuration
    window.  Now TW registrations can be entered directly into TWGS rather than
    TEDIT.

    Added Paste Codes feature to TWGS Configuration, registration window.  The
    registration codes that I generate and email can be copied from the email
    and then pasted into TWGS using this button.

    Added "None" to list of Admin ports so it can be disabled entirely.

  1.01.31 -

    Added Minimized option for TWGS startup.

    Fixed sockets resource problem caused when connections above the server
    limit are handled.  This bug was causing the buffer space to run out for
    other TCP/IP applications.

    Fixed error log bug that caused the log to stop displaying errors after it
    has been purged from the Command Center.

    More changes to scheduler and timer routines to fix boundary problems at
    midnight.

    Added hidden flag for extern so it will run in the background.

    Added ability to spy on other nodes from and administration connection.
    This means that multiple nodes can be viewed using a remote connection.
    Only a single node can be viewed from any given admin connection, but
    multiple admin connections are allowed.

  1.01.32 -

    Changed administration password system to include global admin password
    and game-specific local admin passwords.  Entering the global password
    which is specified in the Config screen, Server tab provides access to
    all games.  Entering the password for a particular game, which is
    specified under the Config screen, Games tab, limits administration
    access to that game only.

    Extern can now be run one game at a time from an admin connection.

    Operations requiring either global administration or game access are

      TEDIT
      TW2002
      Extern
      Spy

    Operations requiring global administration access are

      Cycle server
      Disable server
      Toggle Login Enable
      Reboot system

    Changed the way TWGS stores domains in the IP lists.  Instead of using
    letters to identify each IP in a list, numbers are used.  There
    is no limit on the number that can be included in a list.

    Added Reboot System to Remote Admin options

    Added Display Game Logs to Remote Admin options

  1.01.33 -

    Removed up and down arrow on Configure/Games tab game list box.  The game
    list is sorted on the game letter, but the sort is disabled on this
    screen to avoid scrambling the game list.

    General cleanup of pointer and object allocations/deallocations.

  1.01.34 -

    Fixed a bug that was causing TWGS to use far more GDI resources than it
    needed.  This bug could be what has caused many gameops to experience
    strange behavior that is normally only experienced when system resources
    are low.

  1.01.35 -

    Fixed a bug that caused the registry to write a zero-length binary instead
    of a null string in some cases, thus causing unexpected results in the
    values for some configuration values.  Was responsible for the invalid
    file crash.

  1.01.36 -

    Further fixes were needed for the registry problem.  .35 was unstable under
    some systems.

  1.01.37 -

    Fixed problem with TWGS system timers.  The bug caused occasional TWGS crashes.

  1.01.39 - 

    Added tab to Configuration screen to prepare for Trade Wars JumpGate.  This feature
    is under development and will begin beta tests soon.

  1.01.40 -

    Nothing.

  1.01.41 -

    Minor changes to Admin Menu.  Made "Run all extern" and "Enable/Disable
    Alien Manager" options global so non-admin gameops can't change them.  Also
    added an extra "are you sure" and a warning to the Reboot option.

    Minor change to TWGS.LOG processing.  If the log can't be created or opened
    normally, it attempts to open TWGS.LOG1 up to TWGS.LOG9.  If all attempts
    to create or open a log fail, the log is disabled.

  1.01.43 -

    When a TW game is hung up, TWGS can detect it and force the game to close.
    I have changed this so that the test method runs in its own thread because
    it was causing TWGS to be unresponsive during the 10 seconds of the shutdown
    test.  I have also extended the shutdown test to 30 seconds to make it more
    definite that the game is hung.

  1.01.47 -

    Fixed a bug with the spy window.  It wasn't displaying output unless it was
    in the foreground.

  1.01.48 -

    Fixed a cosmetic bug in the server stats screen.  When displaying a list of
    IP addresses that include the number 0, the list would display incorrectly.

  1.01.50 -

    Added Service functionality.

    Improved timing functions to perform more efficiently.

    Several changes were made to improve TWGS stability with multiprocessor
    systems.

  1.01.51 -

    When TWGS is run under NT as a service with the Task Tray icon enabled, there
    is now a "View TWGS" option to bring it up to the desktop.

    When TWGS is run under NT as a service with the Task Tray icon displayed for
    non-admin logins, the "View TWGS" and "Close TWGS" options are not available.

  1.01.54 -

    When a TW game is shut down by TWGS or by a dropped carrier, a handle was not
    being closed.  Over time, this can add up and create resource shortages on the
    machine running TWGS.  This handle is now properly closed.

    When a socket is aborted because of an abnormal condition, the socket was not
    being properly closed.  This has been fixed.

  1.01.56 -

    When a new game is added to the game list, an index error would appear.  It
    would not effect server functionality.  This index error has been resolved.

    When attempting to run TWGS as a service with an OS that uses a non-english
    language, TWGS would not recognize the administration account.  It now uses
    a non-locale dependent method to detect an administration account.

    TW game archives were intended for debugging purposes, so a gameop with a
    game problem could easily send data to EIS for testing.  It has been used to
    pass game settings around as well, but prior to .56, the registration
    information for a gameop was passed along with the global settings file.
    This information is now masked off.

    TW game archives now require that all local data files are archived, but
    still allow global data files to be included or excluded from an archive.

  v1.02 released, 05/13/2004
  
    
11/25/98 - v1.00

  Initial release.
