
                            Revision history for v3

  v3.14

    Fixed mail system.  Replaced single file system with multi-file "mailbox"
    system for greater stability.

    Moved several global settings into local config file so they can now be
    changed per-game rather than server-wide.

    TWGS: Can toggle Active/Inactive state for a game on the server.  When
    Inactive, players may not enter the game.  Bigbang is available for Inactive
    games even when the server is Online.  Making a game Inactive while the
    server is online will force any players in that game offline without
    warning.

    TWGS: Added ability to run Bigbang from remote admin connection.  Can only
    run on games that are set to INACTIVE or have not yet been banged.

    TWGS: Added ability to toggle games as Active and Inactive.

    Fixed Planetary Trade Agreement display truncating planet number > 999.

    Fixed bug where forcing a user offline causes time online to reset

    Fixed bug with fig decay lock causing player to drop to command menu from
    planet menu when using planetary transwarp.

    Added pacing to planet update, port update, and warp route scan functions

    Added page break to
      sector display
      planet scanner display
      corporate list
      corporate ranks
      corp assets list
      deployed fighter scan
      deployed mine scan

    Added slight pause before and after extern to slow it down

    Personal and Corp planet lists now sort on sector #, then planet #

    Personal and Corp planet lists show planet # in name

    Added editor setting for capture fail percent.

    Added editor setting for when podless ships can be capture.  Choices are
    Always, Never, Unoccupied

    New Alien Traders and Ferrengi will use exponential Corbomite spawn formula.

    Gold aliens will now spend cash on Corbomite.

    eProbe cost max is now 65K Cr.

    Moved game management from Configure to Command Center

    Command Center game list shows registered slots for games, up to 25

    Export supports mail files

    Alien servers automatically reset whenever games with aliens are added
    or removed, activated or deactivated, or aliens are activated while the
    server is online.

    Alien server will be closed if another server for the same alien attempts
    to start.

    Bug:  Gold edited Merchant Cruiser can have a maximum fighter count that's
    larger than the Initial Fighters field can handle.  Fix:  Limited the total
    number of initial fighters to 65535, the maximum allowed for the field.

    Removed registration from TW 2002.  Only TWGS need be registered now.

    Added EIS news and announcement feed.  Displays at TW2002 startup.

    TWGS:  Added foundation for Jumpgate.  TWGS now lists servers with
    jumpgate.classictw.com.

    TWGS:  Added Activation feature.  Any installed server must be activated.
    Activation passes a non-personal ID that's unique to the installation, allowing
    me to track installations.  Personal info is optional.

    TWGS:  Added order dialog for purchasing additional slots and nodes.  TWGS
    comes with 1 game slot and 1 player node for free.  Additional slots are $3
    and additional nodes are $2.

    TWGS:  Added test for latest TWGS version and prompt to download if a newer
    one is found.

    TWGS:  Added links to various TW sites including museum, jumpgate, facebook,
    twitter, etc.

    add images:  JumpgateAbout2.png, Paypallogo.png,

    TWGS:  Added Command Center Jumpgate console

    Added new, faster memory manager with better diagnostics tools for tracking
    memory corruption

    Fix:  TW internal clock can go out of synch with other running game sessions,
    causing them to be unable to process messages between one another.  The clock
    now resynchs every minute to avoid loss of synchronization.

    Fix:  Gold aliens can deadlock when crossing paths.  Now, only one alien can
    complete such a move and the other will wait.

    Fix:  TW2002, TEDIT, etc, could close prior to sending all output.  Applications
    will not close until all output is sent.

    Many actions have a minimum 1/10th second delay so no single session can take
    up 100% CPU.

    Gold files (name files, rank files) are expected to be found in the game's
    Gold directory rather than the main Gold directory.  This will help to avoid
    collisions when running multiple TWA mod files.

    Games that lock up in a loop will break out of that loop and close gracefully,
    helping to avoid data corruption.

    Change:  Bigbang now supports 30K sectors.

    Fix:  Gold aliens could spawn in a fortified sector and, when failing to move,
    be unable to retreat, forcing them into sector 0.  Aliens are now not allowed
    to spawn in a fortified sector.

    Fix:  Gold aliens could attack FedSafe players.  Now Gold aliens have the same
    rules for attacking FedSafe players as other players.

    Fix:  Gold aliens would never destroy defensive fighters.  Aliens will now
    destroy fighters and enter the sector.

    Fix:  Gold aliens will continually re-enter a sector they cannot enter, causing
    a large volume of email spam.  These aliens will now mark a sector as avoided
    if they fail to enter, and only enter if they have enough fighters and shields
    to have an impact on the sector's defenses.

    Change:  Aggressive aliens will favor moving into fortified sectors.

    Change:  Gold aliens now track kills and ports.  When alien ships are captured,
    these stats will effect the resale value on those ships.

    Change:  Hardware fields for Gold aliens are passed to a captured ship, allowing
    players to recover these items.

    Change:  Aliens have a strength to value ratio that they will attempt to maintain
    through buying and picking up fighters, buying shields, dropping and taking
    credits from Citadel, etc.

    Change:  If an alien is unable to retreat to a safe sector, it will self-destruct.

    Change:  Many actions now have a small delay associated with them (subject to
    delay fraction setting) including transport, planetary transwarp, port and planet
    landing and taking off, etc.

    Change:  Added personal setting for sector autocompletion.  Autocompletion
    defaults to ON for compatibility with scripts and helpers, but can be turned
    off if desired.

    Fix:  A bug in the input system can cause a number of strange behaviors,
    including screens that are aborted, messages that won't display, and an
    apparant hard lock.  The input buffer peek routine no longer looks beyond
    valid input, fixing this set of bugs.

    TWGS:  Various fixes related to heavy traffic.  Server now handles fast
    connects and drops, no longer has memory leaks associated with high loads, etc.

    TWGS:  No longer supports running under 8 bit video modes.

    TWGS:  Error log viewer is a thread so processing large log files will not
    bog down the server connections.

    TWGS:  Import and export operations are segmented so processing large TWA files
    will not bog down the server connections.

    TWGS:  Reorganized remote admin connections with many added and improved
    features.

    TWGS:  Game, editor, alien server, etc, all display process ID to assist in
    locating these processes in the Windows task list.

    TWGS:  Added help popup windows to assist new users.

    TWGS:  Extern is now scheduled per-game rather than server-wide.

    TWGS:  Initial installation will install "My Game" into Slot A.  The game
    is ready to play.

    TWGS:  Command Center shell can store a log file.

    TWGS:  Command Center shell can use a scrollback buffer.

    TWGS:  Server now runs as a service on Windows 2003 Server, Vista, and newer
    OSs.



  v3.13 released

  v3.12.01

    Change: Added a setting for total day's worth of turn accumulation.
    Default is 1 day.  A number can be set to specify the number of day's
    worth of turns to accumulate, with the maximum number of turns remaining
    at less than or equal to 65520 turns.

    Bug:  If the Citadel on a planet is ready to upgrade, it will show as
    the lower level in the sector, and won't actually upgrade until a player
    lands on the planet.
    Fix:  The display in the sector and scans will now properly indicate the
    level of the Citadel for planets that are ready to upgrade but have not
    yet been landed on.

  v3.12 released
  
  v3.11.01

  Fixed planet landing bug:  when destroyed by a quasar cannon (atmos),
  a player still had to face fighters in the escape pod.  This has been
  fixed so that the player is repelled as soon as the quasar destroys
  the main ship.

  Fixed problems with "abort" operation.  When aborting paged displays,
  the abort now exits the procedure instead of simply discontinuing
  the display of the output.

  Fixed bug with Gold Merchant Cruiser and Marauders that have been
  modified from the standard settings.  Players would be started in
  these ships with holds and fighters greater than the max allowed
  if these maximums were set to below the normal starting values.

  Fixed 0 turn load colonists bug

  Fixed Ferrengi attack 0 fig bug

  Optimized planet and port updates.  These are not committed to disk
  for Grimy Trader scans or CIM (port) or computer and corporate
  displays (planet).

  Wrote new, more efficient timing routine.

  Created a new mode for multitasking called Adaptive.  If an OS is
  a preemptive multitasking system (Win95/98/NT/OS2) then the default
  mode will be adaptive.  If the OS is cooperative, then the default
  mode will be cooperative.  With adaptive multitasking mode, the
  program determines if the idle call is returning in a reasonable
  length of time and doesn't always go idle if it is not.  This is
  intended to solve problems with Win95 because it tends to take
  as much as a second to return the CPU to an application that is
  running in the background.

  Fixed a bug that allowed invincible sector figs (sorry, no details
  on this one).

  Split the configuration record into a global file that pertains to
  all games and local files that are specific to each game.  The
  files are TWGLOB.DAT and TWCFIG.DAT.

  In TEDIT, General Editors One and Two, each field indicates whether it
  is a local or global setting.  When running multiple games, the global
  changes will effect ALL games, but the local settings will only effect
  individual games.  This is ONLY in the case when multiple game data sets
  are running from a single Trade Wars installation (as with TWGS).

  In the process of splitting these records, I reorganized and expanded
  them.  Both are 4096 bytes with 3923 left in TWGLOB.DAT and 3910 left
  in TWCFIG.DAT for future configuration fields.  Plus, each record
  has a 32 bit flag field for true/false settings with 5 used in TWGLOB.DAT
  and 10 used in TWCFIG.DAT.  This should leave plenty of room for
  future expansion ;)

  Bigbang now remembers your last settings.  You can choose to reset
  to defaults or revert to the last settings after you have made
  changes.

  Bigbang now uses a random seed for the universe generation.  If
  the settings are the same and this seed is the same, the universe
  will be the same.  This makes universes repeatable.

  EXTERN and NONPSERV are now aware of data versions and will automatically
  update to the lastest data when older data is detected.

  Ferrengal can be made invincible.  This will allow it to be used
  as in capture-the-flag type games.

  Added several items to the "S" screen at startup menu.

  Added Explored Sectors, Unexplored Sectors, Set Avoid and Clear Avoid to CIM menu.

  Fixed maintenance delete problems that were turning player assets
    to rogue.

  Added Observer mode for gameops to observe their games without
    being able to effect the game or be effected by the players.

  Added * global (replaces the Boss Key) to list all global keys.

  Added MBBS compatibility mode.  This mode puts several settings
  into effect (they cannot be altered) that represent deviations of
  the HVS version from the Martech version.

    Port robbing formula
    Port stealing formula
    MegaRob bug emulation
    100% Planetary Trading
    32000 max port production
    Daily bust clearing

  V screen stats are only updated once per hour.

  Fixed timing bug that allowed players online at midnight to get a
  free days worth of production (sorry!)

  Fixed "no turns left" bug when removing colonists from planet with
  unlimited turns.

  Added several items to a new General Editor page (I).  Hardware costs
  and a few other prices can be set from this page.  Rob and steal factor
  values can be set here also.

  Added Radiation Halflife Lifetime setting to General Editor Three.  This
  allows the gameop to specify the cycle for Radiation clearing.  When the
  radiation is cleared, ports can be rebuilt.  StarDock and the class 0 ports
  will be rebuilt automatically by the Feds when the radiation has cleared.

  For Gold games, SD and class 0 ports increase in strength when they are
  rebuilt.

  Added hidden start menu function for displaying a raw game stats file.  This
  function is triggered by the * command.

  Fixed cheat that allowed players to determine the type of a planet
  being GTorped before committing to the action.  This allowed players
  to GTorp only the planet types they wanted.

  Fixed TEDIT Sector editor so it updates both the TWSECT.DAT warp
  data and the TWMAP.DAT warp data whenever warp destinations are
  changed.

  Fixed recent bug that caused character input to freeze.

  Fixed mail file instability.  Accesses to the mail file after a player
  had exited the game (this happens often) would crash if a lock was
  present on the mail file instead of waiting for up to 10 seconds for
  the lock to clear.  This resulted in corrupted mail structures and
  is very likely the cause of the unstable mail file.

  Earlier in this beta, I changed the dates so that true, 4 digit dates
  are used in things like error logs and the sysop game logs, but TW dates
  (2002+) are used in the game logs and other places in the game.  I
  made the game date 4 digits which caused a problem with date searching
  in the game logs.  I've switched it back to 2 digit year for game
  dates (all years are assumed > 2000), but some past dates will not be
  searchable because of this bug.

  Global TEDIT settings can not be set by a player using TEDIT with a
  local TEDIT password.  To change globals, you must enter TEDIT with
  a global password (or have password turned off).

  TEDIT Passwords now work like this:  You can have no TEDIT password
  set, only a global password set, or a global password and one or
  more local passwords for your games.  You can't have a local password
  without a global password.

  Fixed bug that was causing port and citadel upgrades to fail!  It turns
  out that this bug has always been part of TW, but it became greatly
  amplified because of a change I made recently.  

  Fixed a bug that allowed players to transport into Defunct ships.

  Fixed disappearing StarDock bug!  (Thanks to Vince, AKA Kage Knoir).

  Fixed bug that resulted in incorrect port details (a misdirected port
  number).

  Fixed several potential causes for the "moving cloak" bug.  This
  shouldn't be possible with the v3.11+ release.

  Bug fixes, 3.11.06:

    Crash while displaying alien rankings.  The alien experience has a max
    of 65535 but it was being stored in a field with a range of 32768.
    With the debug code in place, this caused a range error.  It is fixed
    now and alien ranks should be properly sorted for display.

    Internal Alien and Ferrengi visibility bug.  Under certain circumstances,
    it was possible to have more Alien and Ferrengi in the game than the game
    would expect given the game age.  This is obviously true in the case when
    the game age is rolled back by the gameop.  I have fixed the way TW looks
    for aliens so that it can process aliens beyond the expected number.

    Internal Ferrengi will no longer attack a player in retaliation for being
    attacked if the Ferrengi is destroyed during the attack.

    In TEDIT, when changing the type of a port, the variance and inventory are
    also changed to match the port type.  Variance should be negative for buy
    ports and positive for sell ports.  Capacity should be max at inventory 0
    for buy ports and 0 at inventory 0 for sell ports.

    Fixed a problem with 32 bit TW apps detecting a dropped carrier.  This has
    resulted in games being left running in the background after a user drops
    carrier.  With bigbang, this resulted in locked files.

  Bug fixes, 3.11.10:

    Bigbang sector scramble algorithm was not working properly.  This resulted
    in sector arrangements that were much more ordered when bubbles were used.
    For example, all sectors in a bubble were typically in the same range,
    making a bubble easier to locate.  This is fixed now and the sector should
    be more random when bubbles are used.

    Observers may now rebuild StarDock by attempting to port in SD sector when
    the port has been either replaced by another port or destroyed.  Just
    start to port and you will be prompted to rebuild.

    After destroying a planet, the player is no longer sent to the startup
    menu if he/she was only podded.

    CIM segmentation is working again.  A change I made to optimize non-ansi
    display caused the CIM to send in one large block rather than sending
    several small blocks with a 1 second pause between each.

    I fixed the TEDIT procedures for moving StarDock, Class 0 ports, and
    Ferrengal so they now update the indexes as well as the file records.
    This fix will take care of the problems with phantom class 0 ports and the
    inventory 5 SSS ports.

    Fixed multiple other TEDIT index problems.  I believe that TEDIT has
    been responsible for most of the data corruption that gameops encounter.

    Pressing enter at the main command prompt will display the sector.  This
    behavior is more consistent with the MBBS behavior.

    Bigbang port placement was creating one no-name class 0 port for every
    port class category.  This, along with the TEDIT problem, should account
    for the appearance of these ports.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.11:

    Bug:  Can't enter Citadel even though the display says that the Citadel is
    complete.  Also, new citadel features aren't available even though the
    upgrade is complete.
    Fix:  The planet record wasn't being updated before checking for citadel
    completion.  This should work now.

    Bug:  Strange responses from a port when doing a planetary trade agreement.
    Fix:  This bug has been around since early v2.  Gary liked to use global
    variables, and a few old variables that were no longer being used were being
    read in the ptrade routine with undefined results.  I hate globals!

    Bug:  TWar and some other helpers can't read CIM info.
    Fix:  Some null characters were being sent in the CIM output.  These nulls
    are no longer sent.

    Bug:  CIM S and C would crash the game if no sector or an invalid sector
    was entered.
    Fix:  The CIM now reports if the sector is out of range.

    Bug:  If a dropped carrier occurs while in TEDIT Gold editors, the tedit
    session would remain active in memory instead of shutting down.
    Fix:  TEDIT Gold editors now close if the connection is lost.  This could
    mean lost changes if a Gold record has not been committed.  I have put a
    warning into the Command Center shell to help avoid this happening.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.12:

    New:  Added Gold Import/Export option.  Using this feature, you can save
    your Gold classes to file and distribute them to other gameops, or use them
    for archival purposes.

    Bug:  Dropping carrier while creating a planet with a Genesis Torp could
    result in a planet record that is not completely initialized.
    Fix:  At the end of the Genesis routine, if a dropped carrier condition
    exists, the planet is disabled.

    Bug:  When entering the Transporter, if a key is pressed while the ship list
    is being built, it will abort the display.  Since a count of player ships is
    made as a side-effect of the ship list display, aborting the list before a
    ship is found causes the transporter to think you have no ships.
    Fix:  The display is not sent, but the list is still built.  The transporter
    will know that you have a ship and will allow you to transport.

    Bug:  When towing another player, the tower is not able to port.
    Fix:  The tower is now able to port, but the towee is not.  The tower is
    still not able to land.

    Bug:  When a player is killed, the turns are not taken away.
    Fix:  Turns are now set to zero, then regenerated from midnight of the first
    day the user is allowed back in.

    Bug:  When a player is killed, there's a 50% chance that any cluster of figs
    will turn rogue.
    Fix:  This behavior has been removed.  The only way figs will go rogue is if
    a player is deleted for inactivity or a CEO disolves a corporation.

    Bug:  Since the Gold alien servers run 24/7, when an alien is caught by a
    player's PIG or IC, the alien can generate a very large number of messages
    to the users email.  This is not only annoying to the player, but can make
    the mail file unstable.  Fix:  A captured alien will only send a message the
    first time it attempts to move and is held by a PIG or IC.  After that and
    until it breaks free, no more messages will be posted.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.13:

    Bug:  During cleanup after an abnormal program termination, an error has been
    occuring while attempting to free strings that were not properly deallocated.
    This resulted in an error within the halt routine.
    Fix:  The strings are now properly handled during abnormal program termination.

    Bug:  A player who is killed while on planet could start the next game on a
    planet.  A killed player should start in sector 1, not on a planet.
    Fix:  A player who has been killed will not start on a planet.

    Bug:  When selling a ship at SD while that ship is in tow, or when buying a
    new ship at SD while towing another ship, the tow remains active even after
    the ship in tow or your ship is gone.
    Fix:  If you try to sell your ship, the tractor beam is deactivated.  If you
    try to sell the unoccupied ship you're towing, the tracter beam is deactivated.

    Bug:  Players sometimes surrender their ship when faced with sector fighters
    by pressing the S for surrender by accident.
    Fix:  The S option is no longer offered unless your ship has 0 figs.

    Bug:  The Minimum Rank setting for Gold Imperial ships is not enforced in the
    shipyards.
    Fix:  You now must have both an Imperial commission AND the required rank to
    purchase and fly a ship with a minimum rank value.

    Bug:  Bank balance sometimes became a decimal, causing the value to be reported
    as 1 less than it actually is (truncated).  This is also the cause of the
    occassional loss of bank deposits and transfers.
    Fix:  Bank balance is always maintained as a whole number.  Credits are
    truncated so a transaction can never exceed the maximum for the bank or
    credit field.

    Bug:  The alignment modifier for not attacking another player has never
    worked as it should.
    Fix:  Removed this behavior.  There will never be an alignment shift for not
    attacking an enemy or friend.

    Bug:  NavHaz can be created in Sector 1.
    Fix:  NavHaz cannot be created in Sector 1 or StarDock Sector.

    Change:  Combat aln/exp rewards and penalties have been modified.  The amount
    of alignment or experience given to a player during combat has been changed
    to match that of the more simple MBBS version.

    Change:  Extern evicted players from FedSpace BEFORE clearing the major space
    lanes.  This resulted in some players NOT being evicted because the lanes
    from FedSpace were not clear.  Now, MSLs are cleared FIRST, then the players
    are evicted.  This greatly improves the chances that extern will find a sector
    with a clear path to FedSpace.

    Bug:  Photons in an unlimited turn game have no effect on players.
    Fix:  Photons now disable a player for the remainder of the hour.  Also, a
    player will only regenerate turns starting from the hour of the photon blast,
    not for the entire time the player has been offline.  This means that a player
    who was offline for two days won't regenerate turns for that entire time, but
    will instead only regenerate turns since the time of the photon blast.

    Bug:  Maximum colonists on Terra is limited by the maximum fuel inventory for
    the planet type (default 100,000 colonists for a class M planet).
    Fix:  TEDIT General Editor Three now has a field for Max Terra Colonist that
    defaults to 100,000 and can range from 10,000 up to 100,000,000.

      NOTE that during a data upgrade from a version prior to TWv3.11.13, this max
      is set to the default 100,000 colonists.  Terra will be able to contain more
      colonists if it currently has more than 100,000, but as those colonists are
      removed they will not be replace until the number is under 100,000.  You
      should go into TEDIT and set your max Terra colos to the desired cap soon
      after upgrading to TWv3.11.13.

    Change:  Added Max Port Production setting to TEDIT General Editor Three.
    This setting is still enforced at 37760 for MBBS mode, but can be modified
    from 10000 to the default 65530 for non-MBBS mode games.

    Change:  Added Combat Penalty Mode setting to TEDIT General Editor Three.
    This setting sets the mode for applying alignment penalties for combat.  The
    default mode is the standard TWv3 mode.  This penalizes any player for attacking
    any other player of like-alignment, or the fighters or ships of players with
    like-alignment.  The new MBBS mode only penalizes players for attacking like-
    aligned players or good players for attacking good player's personal fighters.

    Change:  The abort display feature now works for either ALL KEYS or SPACE.  The
    ENTER key is no longer used to abort displays.  This key is often accidentally
    pressed causing the output to be aborted.

    New:  Added Aggressive flag for Gold aliens.  Aggressive aliens will automatically
    attack a player on sight when entering a sector or when the player enters the
    alien's current sector.  They will also move into sectors occupied by fighters
    and engage them in combat.  The Aggressive flag is not set by default for either
    Gold Alien Traders or Ferrengi.

    New:  Gold aliens are now effected by mines, fighters and NavHaz when entering
    a sector.  Only Aggressive aliens will enter sectors with fighters, mines or
    NavHaz.  Other aliens will avoid these hazardous sectors.

    New:  Added Avoid FedSpace flag for Gold aliens.  Aliens who avoid FedSpace
    will be spawned into non-FedSpace sectors, and will attempt to move only to
    sectors outside of FedSpace.  Only when retreating from an attack will these
    aliens venture into FedSpace.

    Bug:  In earlier versions of TW and the MBBS version, sending a single fighter
    to attack a ship that has no shields or fighters always resulted in a capture.
    Changes in the TWv3 combat routine introduced the small probability that the
    ship would be destroyed rather than captured.
    Fix:  I have modifed the combat routines to allow for this guaranteed capture.

    New:  Updated Gold Alien description records to include the grudge list.  In
    the past, this list was thrown out when the alien server went offline.  It is
    now stored in the alien database so it will persist throughout the life of
    the alien race.

    New:  Updated Gold Alien description records to include a home sector for the
    race.  A new flag in the Gold alien editor specifies if a race will maintain
    a home sector.  If a home sector is used by the race, all new aliens will be
    spawned in that sector.  The location of the sector is random, but not in FedSpace.

    New:  Added ability for Gold aliens to trade at ports, trade port pairs, and
    rob and steal from ports.  These behaviors are configurable from the TEDIT
    Gold Alien Editor.

    New:  Gave Gold aliens the ability to purchase Holds, Fighters and Shields at
    class 0 ports with the credits they earn from trading.

    New:  Added ability for aliens to manage their homeworlds, including Citadel
    building.  If a homeworld is captured by a player, the aliens will fight to
    recapture it.  If it is moved, they will attempt to move it back to their
    home sector.  A homeworld cannot be destroyed by Atomic Detonator.

    Change:  The Ferrengi ship spawning timeline was to restrictive.  I changed
    the settings to allow the stronger Ferrengi ships to appear earlier in a game.

    Change:  Gold aliens included a list of specific planet types and could be
    tied to planets deployed by a specified race like ships.  This has been
    simplified to only allow an alien race to be linked to one planet type.
    Races may only maintain one homeworld, and that homeworld type is specified
    directly in the Gold Alien Editor under Resources.  You may also provide the
    name of the planet.  Also, planets may only be deployed as General and Manual
    since deployment by race is no longer necessary.

    Bug:  A low-level file processing bug was resulting in the loss of changes to
    some fields in a record in an inconsistent manner.  This bug has been causing
    very subtle, difficult to duplicate problems and long-term data corruption.
    Fix:  The problem has been removed.

    Bug:  A flaw in the data synchronization mechanism has been resulting in less
    than perfect communication between sessions.  The result can be one game
    changing a data record without notifying another game, then the other game
    overwriting the changes.  This was also a cause of long-term data corruption.
    Fix:  A new synchronization method has been written to improve this situation.

    Note:  Many other changes were made during this month-long revision.  Many
    were low-level and difficult to describe in a revision document.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.14:

    Bug:  Game hangs when generating non-standard planets.
    Fix:  The bug was caused by a change in the planet description record data
    structure.  New planets were not set for General deployment even if they had
    been set for General deployment before v3.11.13 was released.  If you installed
    v3.11.13, you should go in and change your non-standard planets to General
    deployment if you intend the players to be able to use them.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.16:

    Bug:  Scripts that do frequent port or planet updates use too much CPU.
    Fix:  Update Planet and Update Port procedures can not be called more than once
    per second for a given planet or port.  If a script causes frequent calls to
    update planet and update port, a pause is used to slow the updates to one per
    second.  This delay was done with a tight loop rather than an efficient wait.
    I have changed this behavior so that ports and planets can be processed more
    than once per second, but product will only be updated once every second.

    Change:  Gold aliens were leaving too many fighters in place of enemy fighters
    in hostile sectors.  They had been leaving 10% of their fighters.  They will
    now only leave fighters they have above 75% of their capacity, and no more than
    the number of fighters that were there to begin with.  For example, if an alien
    can carry 100 figs, he will leave up to 25 figs.  If the sector originally
    had 5 hostile fighters, then only a max of 5 will be left.  The actual amount
    left will be random from 0 to this number.

    Change:  Gold aliens were not attacking quickly enough.  I modified the way
    aliens enter and scan a sector.  Before, an alien would move into a sector,
    then scan the sector on its next turn.  The next turn could take up to 30
    seconds.  Now, the alien will always scan the sector 3 seconds after it
    enters.  This means that a player will be detected and attacked in 3 seconds
    after he/she enters a sector with an alien or the alien enters the player's
    sector.  This will also speed up the alien port trading.

    Bug:  Photons were not disabling a ship's interdictor.
    Fix:  A ship's interdictor will be disabled after a photon blast.

    Bug:  A player who is towing a ship to SD at the time extern runs may have
    that ship taken away by extern.
    Fix:  A check is done to see if the owner of a ship is online during extern.
    If the player is online and in the same sector, the ship is not reposessed.
    The ownership must be personal because of the difficulties in determining which
    player from a corporation is in a sector with a ship.

    Bug:  Gold planets are not given the initial inventory as specified in the
    Gold planet editor.
    Fix:  The inventory is initialized when a planet is created.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.19:

    Bug:  Dropping carrier while creating a planet will remove NavHaz but not
    create planet.  This can be abused by players.
    Fix:  The NavHaz is the last thing processed so it only removes the NavHaz
    when the planet has been committed.

    Bug:  * display from startup menu displays info about a game.  It should
    only display info that would normally be available to a player, but it was
    displaying a few things that they shouldn't see.
    Fix:  Confidential items are filtered from this list.

    Bug:  After a player is killed, he/she starts the game the next day at midnight
    with 0 turns.
    Fix:  A player will be allowed back on the next day at midnight with one hour
    worth of turns.

    Bug:  Many bugs have been reported of a record pointing to a different record
    than expected, for example, landing on a planet that doesn't show as the one
    you are landing on.  Also, some reports of the game crashing are caused by the
    same bug.
    Fix:  A low-level bug in the indexing system was responsible for this.  It was
    only showing up when internal aliens were moving so it was difficult to detect
    a pattern.

    Bug:  Corp transfers and bank transfers were malfunctioning.
    Fix:  Both were caused by the same problem which has been resolved.

    Bug:  Dropping carrier while placing fighters causes those fighters to turn
    rogue.
    Fix:  The prompt was not treated as an abort on a dropped carrier, so it would
    proceed with undefined values, in this case setting the fighter to owner 0.  A
    dropped carrier is now treated just like a prompt abort which means nothing will
    be done as a result of the input.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.20:

    Bug:  It is possible for a player to enter a Citadel and remain overnight,
    then return to the game and begin to move around while the game believes
    he or she is still on a planet.  This renders the player invulnerable to
    many things because a player on a planet cannot be interacted with at the
    sector level.
    Fix:  When you remain overnight at the Citadel, the game is completely
    ended.  For players who wish to view stats from the startup menu, they
    must simply reenter the game.  This may be a minor inconvenience, but this
    is the only way to be sure that all end-game processing of a Citadel-parked
    player is being completed.

    Bug:  It is possible to alter the state of a player.  For example, a player
    may cause another player to lose his/her cloaking device or exit the safety
    of his/her citadel.
    Fix:  The source of this bug has been removed.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.21:

    Bug:  Strange behavior resulting from an alien attack to recapture its
    homeworld.
    Fix:  The alien ID was not passed correctly which caused records to become
    confused.

    Change:  Optimized mail file to improve performance with very active games.

    Bug:  If a player locks onto another player and then that player cloaks, the
    attacker can still complete the attack.
    Fix:  Once the player is cloaked, it is the same as if the player moved out
    of the sector or landed on a planet or port before the attack was completed.
    A cloaked player is no longer "in the sector".

    Change:  The towing procedure has been changed.  Before, the towee was
    physically moved to the new sector at the same time as the tower.  Now, the
    tower must clear the sector before the towee is moved.  This may effect many
    strategies, but it is more suited to the intended use of towing.  It is no
    longer possible to "leapfrog" a sector, for example, by moving on from a
    sector before the tower has cleared the fighters there.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.22:

    Bug:  Players continue to be effected by other players from the startup routines.
    Fix:  The ability to knock a player off of StarDock has been removed.

    Bug:  NONPSERV shutdown was crashing before completion.  This may or may not
    have created a log entry in the error log.
    Fix:  A pointer was being deallocated with the wrong size.  It has been fixed.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.25:

    Change:  Added ability for TWGS TW to recognize custom ANSI files when
    they are placed into an ANSI subdirectory off of the game's data directory.
    For example, if the game exists at c:\twgs\game\tw1, it will look first in
    c:\twgs\game\tw1\ansi, and if no file is there, it will use the common one
    located at c:\twgs\game\ansi.

    Bug:  Another file bug was detected that resulted in the occassional
    lost record commit.  The file engine has been modified to solve this
    problem.

    Towing has been locked down.  Now, if a player is towing another player, and
    that other player begins to tow another player, the first player drops the
    tow.  Also, if a player is towing another player and another player locks a
    tow on that player, the first player drops the tow.  This was done to avoid
    any cross-towing.

    Mail file:  Improved mail system to handle larger games.  The delete operation
    on a user with many messages was causing timeouts on other sessions accessing
    the mail file.  The new method for processing deletes should solve this problem.

    Density scan no longer includes Observer ships.

    Ferrengi no longer attack Observer ships.

    Fixed tow bug.  When moving out of the sector of your tower, you cannot
    enter the destination sector until enemy fighters are destroyed.

    Fixed bug that allowed a player to pick up figs or mines deployed by another
    player.

    Fixed user record bug with shipyard.  Before, any changes to a users record
    while that user was at the shipyard "buy ship" prompt would be thrown out
    as the user finished the transaction.  This could include, for example, money
    transferred to the bank account of the user.  User changes are no longer
    being thrown out after a shipyard transaction.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.26:

    Fixed annoying "angry" messages in Trade Agreement.  After you underbid
    the price by too much, the port would remain beligerent for every bid
    after that, even if it was acceptable.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.27:

    Increased file lock timeout for mail file to try to avoid timeouts.  When
    an access times out, it can corrupt the mail file.  I need to determine if
    there's a deadlock, or timeouts are accuring under normal system usage.
    The timeout has been raised from 10 seconds to 60 seconds for the time
    being.

    Fixed "Out of Sync" bug introduced in .25.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.28:

    Fixed bug that allowed non-corp players to escape the Interdictor Cruiser
    of other non-corp players during an attack.

    Removed mail maximum.  I may introduce it later after I'm confident that
    the system is stable.

    After intensive diagnostics, I have located a cause of the periodic mail
    system crashes.  I expect the mail system to be much more stable from this
    point on.  There remains the potential for a mail system crash from an
    abnormal program termination, but I will wait to see if this is common
    enough to be a concern.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.29:

    Limpet mines no longer turn rogue if abandoned.  Rogue limpets are not
    consistent with the game's design.  In other words, a rogue limpet has
    no function since it cannot be tracked.

    Removed Random Factor from * settings display.

    Added dynamic values to * settings display, including active players,
    active ports, active planets, active corps, fighters, mines, etc.

    Added player's IP address to the sysop log.

    Enabled Trade Wars Turbo support.


  Bug fixes, v3.11.30:

    Fixed bug with TW game log IP addresses.  They were getting truncated.

    Changed registration method for TW Turbo.  The official release of Turbo
    will require at least v3.11.30.

    Added TEDIT setting (General Editor Three) to disable Rob/Steal delay.

    Modified the method TW uses to determine who is considered hostile to a
    ship or planet.  In the past, a person who was in the corporation of another
    person was allowed to access that person's personal assets.  This is no
    longer the case.  Only corp-owned assets can be accessed by all corp members.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.31:

    No longer able to post a bounty on an Observer.

    Added MBBS-mode change to Atmospheric Quasar Cannon.  TWv3 uses a more
    conservative factor in determining the amount of damage done.  MBBS mode
    atmos Q-Cannons do 4 times as much damage.

    Added new delay logic for combat.  When a player attacks another player, the
    attacker's session posts a "powering up weapons" message to the enemy.  There
    is now a delay that lasts up to the standard ship move delay from the time
    the attacker actually lauches the fighters, but that will be cut short as
    soon as the enemy acknowledges receipt of the "powering up weapons" message.
    This improves the chances that an attacked player will have received all
    messages posted before the attack and will have some opportunity to take
    evasive action even in games with the move/attack delay removed.

    Modified the acknowledgement tracking system that removes inactive players
    from the active list.  This system won't actually boot a player that is
    online, even if the player is not responding to messages.

    Message system now diagnoses itself and resets if it is not working properly.

    Channel is no longer reported as negative for channels above 32768.

    Cleaned up Enter Sector routine.  The routine now aborts if the player is
    moved to a different sector or killed.  If moved to another sector, the
    routine is started again for the new sector.

    Fixed a bug with Grimy Trader that make it easier to locate traders on some
    ports and impossible on others (oops).

  Bug fixes, v3.11.32:

    In an attempt to improve the problems with message lag (a player receiving
    a message that he has been killed AFTER he has moved to another sector), I
    have made some changes to the way messages are processed while a player is
    moving.  In the past, messages were only processed once per second.  Now,
    messages are always processed as a player moves from one sector to another.
    Also, in the past, with 0 move delay, messages were not being processed
    at all for autopilot moves.  This has been fixed.

    Fixed problems with podding.  After a player is podded, the new ship type
    was not properly initialized.  The boundary limits on ship capacities was
    still the same as that of the original ship, not the pod.

    Fixed problem when podded by another player during attack.  Standard pods
    were always being assigned even if a ship was configured for a non-standard
    pod through the Gold editors.

    Changed method for determining alignment of Gold alien fighters.  Alignment
    is now set to the average alignment of the alien race for that day.  For
    example, with default Gold Ferrengi, at day 0, fighters will have alignment
    near -15 and at day 120, fighters will have alignment near -1800.

    Fixed bug that caused "UNUSED" to appear as the name of a planet that was
    destroyed with Atomic Detonators.

    Changed planet creation (Genesis Torp) procedure again.  The new method
    guarantees that if a player drops carrier, the planet will be created
    with default settings, the player will receive experience and alignment,
    NavHaz will be removed from the sector, and the planet will appear in
    the sector.

    Gold ships cannot have Functional set to false if they are used with General
    Deployment.

    HOLD: In an effort to lock down player interactions, I have added code to lock
    a player's event node while processing events.  This may slow the game down
    under some circumstances, but will help me determine if the attack synchronization
    problems have anything to do with events generated during event processing.

    Added forced message processing after any command is entered.  This will
    guarantee that a player has the most recent record state before any command
    is processed.

    If a ship or player is attacked while in tow, the tow link will be broken.

    Fixed extern problem with mixed-corps.  If every player on a team is dead
    when extern runs, the Corp alignment is returned as 0 which is considered
    positive.  If the players on the team have negative alignment, they will be
    penalized by a quarter of the lowest alignment.  The fix changes the
    extern mixed-corp processing somewhat.  If you are dead at extern, you
    are excluded from this penalty entirely.

    TEDIT:  Fixed Gold editor bug.  When selecting a ship, planet, or alien race,
    often pressing enter will result in undefined file pointers which can
    corrupt the file.

    TEDIT:  When setting a player's turns to something above 0, the Photon
    dampening effect is removed.

    TEDIT:  Fixed bug that caused sector data file and sector warp file to go
    out of synch after sector warp edits.

    Retreat no longer requires a turn.

    Rewrote pod escape algorithm.  The new algorithm is more likely to find
    a path.  If the sector isn't completely surrounded, the escape pod will
    escape to at least an adjacent open sector.

    Added ANNOUNCE.TXT file processing.  If a file called ANNOUNCE.TXT exists
    in the game data directory, it will be displayed after the intro ANSI.
    Use this file for any game-specific announcements.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.34:

    TEDIT:  When setting Gold aliens maximum count to 0 and back to non-0,
    the editor was crashing.  This has been fixed.

    TEDIT:  The earlier fix for sector warp list changes was incomplete.  Any
    active players had to exit and re-enter the game before the changes to the
    warps of a sector took effect.  This has been fixed.

    Fixed a bug that was causing a player to be in one sector but appear to be
    in another sector.  The player's sector index number was out of synch with the
    sector record number.  The record number is now synchronized to the index
    number when a player moves.

    ANNOUNCE.TXT can now be displayed from the entry menu with the A command.
    If the file is found, the A option will appear.  If it is not, the command
    will not appear.  The ANNOUNCE.TXT will be displayed with pauses.

    TEDIT:  Added a setting to General Editor Three that allows the gameop
    to override the password protection of TEDIT when run from TWGS Command
    Center.  This setting can be set for each game individually.

    NONPSERV:  Aliens that were interdicted were not re-entering the sector.
    This means that the sector defenses would only trigger once for a given
    alien no matter how often that alien tried to leave.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.35:

    A port will attack back with at least 5 damage points unless it is destroyed.

    Fixed a bug that caused the global message file to reset after reaching
    the maximum number of lines.  It now empties the file of all lines over
    the maximum number.  By default, this number is 800 lines.

    Temporarily removed code to purge the error and game logs when they reach
    file size of 65000 bytes.

    Fixed a bug that allowed a player to create a port in slot 1 through 4
    which is reserved for SD and class 0 ports.  This could happen while SD is
    destroyed, and when SD is recreated it will be cross-linked to the other
    port.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.36:

    If the number of Gold aliens in the alien data file is different from the
    number specified in the alien description file, TEDIT will clear all aliens
    from the game.  This allows the game to continue running.  New aliens will
    begin to spawn as soon as the alien server is brought back online.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.37:

    Fixed bug that caused players to lose game time more quickly than they should.

    EXTERN:  Fixed bug that caused players on a planet during a collision to
    be untouched.  Now the player will be destroyed just as if an Atomic Detonator
    was used to destroy the planet.

    Fixed bug that allowed multiple players to rob the same credits from a single
    port.

    Players landing on a port to rob or steal are now treated as landed (hidden
    from the sector) while at port.

    Fixed port attack bug that caused ports to attack back with only 5 power points.

    BIGBANG:  Fixed a bug that allowed clusters of sectors to be "black holes".
    These clusters can be entered, but not left.

    Fixed bug that caused a player to drop into the shield combat menu when
    invading a planet and being destroyed by atmospheric quasar cannons.

    You no longer need holds to embezzle credits from a port.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.38:

    The port robbing bug fix created a port trading bug.  This has been fixed.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.39:

    Fixed planetary combat bug that made it impossible to attack a planet's
    shields.
     
    Added Maximum Regeneration per Visit field to configuration.  This setting
    determines the maximum amount a port can regenerate on one visit.  The classic
    setting was 50%.  The new default setting is 100%.  This setting appears on
    General Editor Two, <8>, in place of Multiple Photon Firing.  Multiple Photon
    Firing has been moved to General Editor Three, <8>.

    Fixed bug with destroying planets via collision or Atomic Detonator (this
    also effects port attacks) that caused the game to crash when killing a
    player on the planet or port.

    Added single turn deduction to retreat.  If player has no turns, the retreat
    is still successful.

    Changed port combat so it's difficult to sustain attacks against a weak port.

    Fixed bug that allowed players moving into a defended sector through a one-way
    to be able to move past defensive or toll figs.

    Changed mail system to try to improve stability.  This change requires that
    the mail file be purged and reinitialized.  TW will do this automatically
    when you run .39 for the first time.  Just be aware that this upgrade will
    delete the player's mail.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.40:

    After making many changes to try to "fix" the mail file, I believe I've
    discovered the cause of the problem.  This sequence of events is the
    likely cause of the mail file corruption:  a) player with many messages
    exits the game.  b) game appears to be frozen while messages are deleted.
    c) player gets impatient and drops carrier.  d) TWGS detects that the
    session is not active, but the game has not shutdown.  It forces the game
    to exit.  e) Since the game was in the middle of processing the mail file,
    this will often lead to mail file corruption.  This sequence of events has
    been tested and does indead lead to mail file corruption.  I have fixed
    this problem, and I'm HOPEFUL that the mail corruption will go away.

    As a side effect of this bug fix, I've increased the stability of the
    mail system.  Even though the cause of abrupt game shutdowns is
    artificial in the case I've described, it's always possible that the
    system will go down due to power outage or other problems.  Therefore,
    the new mail system will process the mail file in two phases.  First,
    it will submit all mail file changes.  Second, it will commit all of
    these changes.  If the first phase is not completed, no change is made
    to the mail file.  If the second phase is interrupted, the mail file
    will be flagged as "dirty", and will be deleted.  Other players who are
    online at the time this happens will be forced offline so that the mail
    file can be refreshed.

    Other than that, nothing has changed.

  Buf fixes, v3.11.41 : Enhanced mail file in attempt to solve ongoing problems.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.42 :

    Internal changes to address data synchronization between multiple active
    game sessions.

    Moved "player enters the game" event to very end of initialization routine
    in order to protect a player entering the game from being seen until the
    very last possible moment.  Wanted to avoid situation where player is
    seen, but isn't ready to move.

    Fixed a problem with the message system that caused it to stop hearing
    events after a period of time.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.43 :

    Several Gold alien server bugs were fixed:

    Gold aliens won't take over sector fighters.

    Gold aliens won't be able to move on from a sector until they have destroyed
    the sector fighters.

    Gold aliens won't drop more than 50,000 fighters in a sector without a planet.

    For Gold servers that are inactive while players are not online, timed
    homeworld management events were not triggering with the correct frequency.
    They will not trigger with the proper frequency even if the game is inactive
    for long periods of time.

    For alien races with the Banding behavior, aliens have been much more active
    than they are supposed to be.  For example, if aliens band in groups of 8,
    it is likely that the aliens will be moving at about 8 times the rate that
    they are supposed to.  This has been fixed.  Banding aliens should be much
    less active from now on.

    Imposed 1/4th second ship movement and attack delay on ships with movement
    mode NONE.
    
  Bug fixes, v3.11.44 :

    Mail system wasn't designed to be reentrant, but under some circumstances,
    particularly while running internal aliens, mail can be generated in the
    background while mail is either being composed or read in the foreground.
    This cases can cause unexpected results with the mail system.  This has been
    fixed.

    Index system was made more stable and efficient.

    Fixed a bug that allowed fighters over 50,000 to be placed into sectors
    without planets.

    In cases where a planet was present and fighters were placed over 50,000,
    then the planet was moved, fighters should be able to remain at a level
    above 50,000 but not increase.  As fighters are taken, the acceptable level
    should drop to the amount of figs in the sector until eventually a maximum
    of 50,000 fighters exists.  A bug related to this that has been fixed was
    causing fighters to drop to 50,000 if even a single fighter was destroyed.

    The difference between Gold and standard Tholian Sentinals has been removed.
    Standard Thoslians will now get 4x defensive odds when they are located in
    a sector that contains a planet owned by the player (for a personal ship) or
    the player's corp (for a corp-owned ship).

    Removed pause after Atomic Detonator destroys a planet.

    Fixed a bug that caused Gold ship description files to become corrupt.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.45:

    BIGBANG:  Fixed a bug that caused additional uninitialized ports to be
    created by bigbang when small sector counts are specified.  Extern will
    crash when run on the created game data.

    NONPSERV:  The server will crash if more than 500 aliens are active.  This
    has been fixed.

    NONPSERV:  Fixed a bug with the management of Unique ships.

    Fixed a bug that caused ships to become cross-linked when exchanging in
    the Citadel.

    Setting to silence messages was being turned back on by CIM.  This has been
    fixed.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.46:

    GOLD:  To simplify creation of Alien Deployment ships, I have changed
    the behavior of the editors slightly.  Now, when you specify that a ship
    is to be deployed by an alien race, that race is automatically set up for
    Alien Deployment.  In the Alien editor, you can see if Alien deployment
    is enabled, but cannot change it there.  You must remove Alien deployment
    from all ships before Alien Deployment will be disabled for the race.

    GOLD:  In previous versions, when a Gold alien is unable to find a ship
    to use, either because none are available to it, or because it doesn't
    have enough experience to fly any of the ships that are available to it,
    an error is reported and the alien is not created.  The new system will
    a) give the alien the least powerful ship if it doesn't have enough experience
    for any of the ships, or b) give the alien an Merchant Cruiser if there are
    no ships available.

    GOLD:  In order to simplify the process of designating a time at which an
    Alien Race will begin to use a ship based on the level of the four ship
    categories (Combat, Cargo, Transport, Scout), I have changed the behavior
    so that the day specified in the Gold Alien editor is the day at which
    there will be a 25% chance that any alien spawned will be able to fly a
    ship of that category level.  The previous behavior allowed only a very
    small percentage of aliens to have access to a ship on that day.

    The problem with message silence that was supposed to be fixed for .45 was
    not actually fixed.  I have revisited this problem, and it appears to be
    fixed for revision 46.  The problem seemed to appear after using CIM or
    playing TriCron at the Tavern.

    Fixed a bug with planetary ship transport.  When a ship transported blind
    and was destroyed, the escape pod was being placed into the destination
    sector.  The NavHaz was being placed into the sector with the original
    planet.  This has been changed to match the normal blind warp results.
    The pod is sent to sector 1, and NavHaz is placed into the destination
    sector where fusion occurred.  Also, any ships in that sector will receive
    a message that a ship was destroyed.

    Fixed a bug that allowed "player enters Citadel" and "player exits Citadel"
    messages to be displayed for any planet in a sector.  This message is now
    only displayed for the planet on which this Citadel exists.

    The mail problems have decreased, but still exist.  The problem of the
    exploding file seems to have been fixed, but the file has continued to
    become corrupt.  I guessed that this was a new bug created by the last
    mail file changes, and that turns out to be correct.  I have fixed this
    problem and am hopeful that the mail file will be completely stabalized
    at this point...  Fingers crossed!

    I finally found the cause of the attack/port synchronization problems.
    I've modified the code so that the game is more able to deal with a case
    where one player is attacking while another is porting, or landing on a
    planet or SD.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.47:

    Fixed a bug with ship record boundaries that could potentially effect
    several areas of the game.  The most obvious effect of this bug was when
    a player podded and then wasn't able to purchase maximum holds, figs, or
    shields from a class 0 port without first leaving the game and restarting.
    I've fixed this bug several times, but new changes keep bringing it back :(
    This latest change is a low-level fix of a bug that could be causing many
    other problems.

    Fixed a bug that caused the Player Retreated message to be displayed in the
    sector where the player retreated rather than the sector the player retreated
    from.

    Added a "Surrendered ship" message to the external and in-game logs.

    I fixed a bug with the sector fighter offensive attack.  In the past, if
    a player entered a sector with zero fighters or shields, the sector fighters
    would not attack.  Now, the sector will attack with one fighter.

    Changed the startup menu game listing to list by value rather than by rank.

    Fixed a cosmetic bug that caused the letters to be omitted on the ship list
    display when ANSI was disabled.

    Fixed a bug with eProbes.  Currently, if you attempt to send an eProbe and do not
    have a path, the probe will launch and self-destruct immediately.  With the fix,
    you will be asked if you'd like to clear avoids just like a standard move.
    The eProbe will abort launch, and you will have to relaunch after you clear
    the avoids.

    Added a Personal Setting for tactical display pauses.  Currently, several screens
    have a pause that conflicts with older helpers.  I have made all of these pauses
    configurable under one Screen Pause setting in the Personal Settings menu.  This
    defaults to off, so those who rely on those pauses will need to turn them back on.
    I am willing to consider adding optional pauses to other screens that do not
    currently have them.

    Added a global to turn pauses off and on at any prompt.  The new global is "&".
    You can list all globals using the * global command.

    Fixed a bug with Corporate planet display.  When the length of a display line
    is longer than the screen width, it would cause the pause to lock up the game.
    This same problem could have been effecting other displays with pauses.  It has
    been fixed at a low level so that it will not occur at any pause, even if
    the line length is too long.

    Fixed an attack bug.  When an evil player attacks a good player, and the evil
    player has a lower experience than the good player, the experience penalty that
    should have been applied to the destroyed good player was actually being applied
    to the attacking evil player.  This has been reversed.

    TEDIT:  Changed Nebula and Beacon edits so they will accept an empty string.
    When an empty string is specified, the Nebula and Beacon are not identified
    in the game.

    NONPSERV:  Fixed a bug with alien planet captures.  If an alien race has lost
    their homeworld and they capture an enemy planet in their space, it will cause
    them to stop trying to recapture their own homeworld.  This bug has been fixed.

    Fixed a bug with ship towing.  When a player destroys a ship in tow, the
    ship record remains in tow so that the next ship created with that ship ID
    will still be in tow.  This bug included both manned and unmanned ships in
    tow.

    I've changed the way Corp hacks are recorded.  Awhile back, I changed this so
    that an attempt to hack a corp would only be reported once per day.  The new
    behavior works like this.  Hacker attempts are only reported once every 10 minutes.
    This means that a corporation will receive a maximum of 144 hacker messages
    per day total.  But if a hacker attempts to hack a Corp for more than 10 minutes,
    a Corp will receive another message indicating that the player is still trying
    to gain access to their records.  This should help to differentiate between
    the accidental hack message and a true hacker.

    Fixed a bug with player initialization.  When a new player is initialized
    but is unable to get a ship (because the ship records are all used), a bug
    caused the player record to persist even though the player was not created.
    I have fixed this so that the user record is thrown out if no ship is available.

    Added code to synchronize data processing for the Transport routines.  This
    was done to try to avoid cases where the ship number can go out of sync.

    Improved handling of external changes to planet number.  The user record holds
    the number of the planet or port that a player is on, and a flag is used to
    indicate that the player is on a planet or port.  Previously, if the user
    record was changed by another player or EXTERN (an external change), the user's
    session would detect it and respond.  If the planet number was set to 0, the
    player would be removed from the planet.  I have changed this so that the
    OnPlanet flag is also checked to verify that the player is actually supposed
    to be removed from the planet (this can happen in some cases).  If the flag
    is consistent with the planet number, the player is bumped from the planet.
    Otherwise, the planet number is corrected.  If I am correct that this is what
    is causing players to appear in SD sector while on SD, this will fix it.

    Bug:  An online player that has been punted from a corporation will still
    appear to be on that corporation until the player exits and reenters.
    Fix:  The player is now notified that he/she has been punted.

    Change:  A message is sent to a player or corporation whenever another
    player, corporation, or alien race claims one of their planets.

    Change:  When a cloaked player is towed from one sector to another, the message
    that will be received by players in the source and destination sectors will
    be limited in information.  Instead of stating which player was towed, the
    message will simply state that a cloaked ship was towed.  It seems reasonable
    that a player would notice a ship with its tractor beam on, but since the ship
    is cloaked, the player won't know who has been towed.

    Bug:  When a planet is destroyed out from under a player, but the player is
    unable to escape to another sector, the player will remain on the planet which
    is now inactive and undefined.
    Fix:  A player will now be placed in the sector even if the player is unable
    to move to a different sector.

    Change:  I've added a turn penalty for fleeing.  This penalty is only applied
    when a player attempts to land or port after fleeing.  If the player uses a turn
    doing anything else before landing or porting, the penalty will not be applied.
    This change is intended to increase the turn cost of SDF from 2 turns/cycle to
    3 turns/cycle on average by penalizing a turn roughly 50% of the time.

    Change:  I've added a new Personal Settings and Global to toggle Online Auto
    Flee.  By disabling Online Auto Flee, a player will not automatically flee
    to an adjacent sector when attacked by a stronger opponent.  When this is
    enabled, the player will flee as usual.  When offline, the player will always
    flee as usual.  The global key is "\".

    Change:  All unmanned ships will be repossessed in FedSpace during EXTERN
    unless they are locked in tow.

    Bug:  Ship and planet names can be blank (one or more spaces only).
    Fix:  This is no longer allowed.

    Change:  I've changed the way TW polls for events.  The Polling Interval,
    which defaults to 1 second, was being used as the maximum time it would take
    for TW to detect an event (message, changed data, etc).  I've modified this
    so that TW detects these events at 1/4th the rate of the polling interval.
    This means that, by default, TW will detect events every 1/4th second.
    I have also changed Poll Interval so that the maximum Poll Interval is 4,
    which equates to one second between event notifications, the default and
    fastest rate before revision 47.

    NONPSERV Bug:  Gold alien planets stop gathering colonists after they have
    enough product to reach next Citadel level.  In many cases, the homeworld
    reaches its requirements for product before it has the necessary number of
    colonists, and this bug causes the homeworld to be unable to advance its
    Citadel level.
    Fix:  Aliens will continue to drop Colonists on the homeworld until the
    requirement for advancement has been met.

    NONPSERV Bug:  Gold aliens do not clear NavHaz from their sectors.  When NavHaz
    gets high, newly spawned aliens will simply explode on entry.
    Fix:  NavHaz is cleared in a race's homespace every 24 hours.

    NONPSERV Change:  Several modifications have been made to improve the ability
    of an alien race to advance its Citadel.  Along with the above Citadel
    advancement bug, this should enable aliens to better fortify their homeworlds.

    Bug:  When a player is starting or restarting and looking for an inactive
    ship to use, the user record is locked while looking for an open ship.
    The process of searching for an open ship was running too slow under the
    stressful scripted ship purchases, and this was causing other users
    to timeout and drop from the game while trying to access this user.
    Fix:  The inactive ship search only makes one pass through the ship database
    now and will always complete quickly.

    Bug:  Players in ships with numbers greater than 255 were getting Out of Sync
    errors whenever they were attacked.
    Fix:  A byte variable was used to temporarily store the ship number when
    deactivating the ship, causing the ship number from be "modded" by 256.  When
    the game attempted to write, for example, ship #265 to ship #9 (265 mod 256),
    it generated the OOS error.

    Bug:  When a player transports from a planet and fuses, the pod is being
    placed into sector 1.
    Fix:  The pod will now be placed in the sector of the planet.

    EXTERN Bug:  Alien homeworlds are not supposed to be destroyable, but
    they can be destroyed by planet collisions.
    Fix:  Alien homeworlds are excluded from the max planets per sector calculation
    and will not collide with other planets.

    Bug:  Density scan isn't working when a player has zero turns.
    Fix:  Density scan will always work regardless of turns left.

    Bug:  Alien homeworlds can be trapped in the Major Space Lanes.
    Fix:  When aliens recapture a homeworld, they will always be allowed to
    warp the planet back to their homespace if it is located in an MSL, regardless
    of the level of the Citadel or the amount of Ore on the planet.

    Bug:  Events that booted players from a planet were moving the players into
    the sector, but not properly updating their "on planet" flag.
    Fix:  Players are now properly flagged as off of the planet when they're
    evicted or the planet is destroyed under them.

    Bug:  When a player reconnects and boots another connection offline, the
    new connection was retaining some of the status of the old connection.  For
    example, if the original player was on a planet, the new player would start
    on a planet.
    Fix:  The session of the booted player is completely shut down before the
    new session starts so there won't be any carried-over data.

    Bug:  When firing Photons, a player can begin the command but not complete
    it until he has been moved to another sector.  The player is then able to
    fire the photon to a distant sector after a long pause.
    Fix:  The photon rechecks the sector before actually firing.  If the sector
    is no longer adjacent, the game reports the new adjacent sectors and requests
    a new sector.

    Change:  Added TW command processing.  TW can be run from the command
    line using COMMAND=.  Currently, the only commands handled are COMMAND=RANKS
    and COMMAND=STATS.  Typing TW2002 DATA=C:\TWGS\GAME\TW1 COMMAND=RANKS will
    cause TW to generate the two player ranking files and the corporation
    ranking file and then exit immediately.  COMMAND=STATS will generate a list
    of settings and dynamic values identical to the startup menu * display.
    All reports generated in this way will be stored into the standard
    subdirectory OUTPUT off of the game directory.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.48:

    Bug:  When a player transports into a ship that is in tow, the tow lock
    is supposed to be broken.  If the player is in a different sector, the
    lock is not being properly broken.
    Fix:  This bug was introduced in revision 43.  Many messages are only
    processed by ships that are in the same sector, but the message to drop
    tow is not one of those messages.  It was inadvertently added to the list
    of such messages in revision 43, along with a few other messages.  This
    has been fixed.

    Bug:  The fix to the Corp Assets display in revision 47 created a bug with
    the display of Corp Assets without ANSI and without Pauses.  The formatting
    of the display is incorrect under that specific condition.  This is actually
    a general display bug that has appeared for the first time with the changes
    to this display.
    Fix:  Formatted displays now work properly even if ANSI and prompts are disabled.

    Bug:  A fix in a recent revision that was intended to protect players from
    attack before they enter the sector when starting a new game had the side-
    effect of allowing players to log in under the same account.  Any players
    who knew about this and didn't report it, shame on you!
    Fix:  Players are now both protected against attack during login AND prevented
    from login in more than once under the same account.

    Bug:  A problem exists with landing on a planet while a ship is in tow.
    The problem is caused by the pause delay.
    Fix:  I have removed the pause delay.  The "ship is no longer in tow"
    message is displayed, but no pause is issued.

    Bug:  A general TransWarp bug exists that is caused by the pause after
    locking onto a destination sector and the time of the actual TransWarp.
    Fix:  A new setting has been added to address this problem.  The setting
    is Fighter Lock Decay.  The decay time is set in minutes and can range from
    0 to 1440 (24 hours), defaulting to 1440.  This decay time is used to determine a
    probability of success in warping into a sector where a fighter is no
    longer transmitting a locator beam.  For the default of 24 hours, there is
    a 100% probability of success at 0 seconds and a 0% probability of success
    at 86400 seconds.  There is always a grace period of one minute regardless
    of this setting, so any attempt to warp within one minute of the lock will
    ALWAYS succeed regardless of this setting.  Therefore, a setting of 0 means
    that warps will succeed up to 1 minute but fail for every attempt over 1 minute.
    This minute is not subtracted from the decay time, so after the first minute,
    warp probability is determined based on the full time since lock, not the time
    since the grace period expired.

    Change:  Some strange problems have been reported about alien interactions
    with other planets.  In order to guarantee that the alien homeworld has
    not been disabled, I have limited access to Alien homeworld planet flags
    in the planet editor.

    Bug:  Aliens are only supposed to remove product from non-Homeworld planets
    found in their sector, but they have been leaving product.  This is caused by
    a formula that determines how much they can carry that can return a negative
    number.  In that case, the alien actually leaves product rather than taking it.
    Fix:  Aliens cannot leave negative product amounts, and will not leave product
    on an unprotected planet.

    Bug:  Aliens do not touch non-Homeworld planets in the same sector as their
    homeworld.
    Fix:  Aliens will now process their homeworld first, then process any other
    planets in the sector.

    Change:  I have added an alien behavior that will effect their interaction
    with non-Homeworld planets in their homespace.  If the homeworld is in need
    of product for either defense or Citadel advancement, an alien will fill its
    holds and transport that product from a nearby planet to the homeworld.

    Change:  NavHaz in alien homespace continues to be a problem.  Now, when an
    alien detects NavHaz in a homespace sector, it will report this to the
    proper authorities and have it cleared away immediately.

    Bug:  Aliens can drop more than the maximum number of fighters into a sector.
    Fix:  The fighter drop routine now correctly tests for boundaries.

    Change:  The game will no longer place a new player planet into a sector that is
    occupied by a player, planet, fighters, or mines.

    TEDIT Change:  I added the ability to place Gold alien fighters and Armid mines
    into a sector.

    Bug:  It is possible to trick the transporter and transport an evil player
    into an ISS.
    Fix:  This is no longer possible.

    Bug:  Costs for very expensive ships (over 100,000,000 credits) are not displayed
    correctly in the ShipYard ship display.
    Fix:  I have added one digit to the display width for this field.

    Bug:  When a player is at the Move prompt and is forced into another sector
    either by fleeing or by being towed, they will immediately return to the
    original sector.
    Fix:  On exit of the Move prompt, a test is made and no action is taken if
    the move prompt was aborted.

    Change:  If a player is at the Photon prompt and is forced to move to another
    sector, the player will drop out of the photon prompt.

    Change:  If a player is at the Mine Disruptor prompt and is forced to move to another
    sector, the player will drop out of the Mine Disruptor.

    Change:  If a player is at the Ship Transport prompt and is forced to move to another
    sector, the player will drop out of the Ship Transport prompt.

    Change:  If a player is at the Planetary Transport prompt and is forced to move to another
    sector, the player will drop out of the Planetary Transport prompt.

    Change:  TEDIT:  The General Editor Three setting "Secure Local Access" is now
    a global rather than a local setting, and it defaults to NO.  If you intend to
    limit access to the editor from the TWGS Console, you should reset this setting
    after installing revision 48.

    Change:  Added Ship Count to raw settings output of startup menu (*).

    Bug:  The global message file is sometimes being purged during high activity.
    Fix:  If an error occurs when the file is read, it is reset.  This has been
    limited to only a few types of errors.  In particular, the share timeout error
    that has been causing this to reset will no longer trigger it.

    Change:  In order to limit name spoofing, I've added some additional checks on
    player aliases.  Names cannot contain these text fragments:

      EPLOYED FI
      EPORT SECT
      INE IN
      INES IN
      NACTIVITY

      Also, for any name with "F ", "R ", or "P ", the six characters to the right
      of the space are tested against the first six letters of all existing player names.
      They are also tested against the first six letters of all existing ship names.

      Also, no name with "F ", "R ", or "P " plus "GALILE" is allowed.

      Also, when a ship is named, a check is done for any names containing "F ",
      "R " or "P " plus the first six letters of the ship name.  If any exist,
      the name is not allowed.

    Bug:  Several problems have been reported with game time limits.

      A player who has been destroyed is not recovering game time the next
      day he/she is allowed into the game.
      Fix:  The time online for the player is now reset for a player who is
      starting with a new ship.

      Players who are online during the transition from one day to the next are
      not recovering their game time.
      Fix:  The time online is now reset at the moment of midnight.

      Game time is consumed from the moment of startup.
      Fix:  Players are now allowed to remain at the startup menu indefinately.
      Time at this menu is not detracted from a players game time.  Only after
      the player has entered a password does the countdown begin.  The countdown
      ends after the player exits to the intro menu.

      Bug:  The turn that is deducted on lift-off when a player has taken product
      from the planet not deducted when the player exits the planet by way of the
      Citadel.
      Fix:  The turn is now deducted when the player enters the Citadel.

    NONPSERV Change: Gold aliens will now spend 25% of their treasury per day to
    fortify their homeworld sectors.  I know this is fudging a bit, but I needed
    to increase the defensive capabilities of Gold aliens while giving them
    something more to do with the credits they accumulate.

    Change:  I've added the ability to override Gold name and rank files by
    placing them into the Gold subdirectory of a game's data directory.  If the
    file is not located in the local Gold subdirectory, the game searches for
    the global version of the file in the global Gold subdirectory.

    Change:  I've extended the ability to override ANSI files to include all
    files located in the ANSI directory.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.49:

    Bug:  I accidentally removed the "Yes"/"No" echo after a yes/no prompt in rev
    48.
    Fix:  It's working again.

    Change:  I made further changes to the Fighter Lock Decay feature.  This is
    how it now works.  The settings still specify a value from 0 minutes to
    1440 minutes (24 hours) as the maximum duration that a TransWarp lock can
    hold after the locator beam is gone.  But now the countdown for lock decay
    begins at the moment the fighter is removed from the sector, not the moment
    the TWarp lock was established.  Also, you will receive a message indicating
    that the locator beam has disappeared and that the lock has begun to decay.
    Then, when the lock is finally lost, you will receive a message indicating
    this and TransWarp will shut down.  The decay is generally linear over the
    Fighter Lock Decay period, with some fluctuation.  I leave it up to players
    to figure out this system and learn the average and minimum decay times
    for a given setting.  But in a nutshell, the lock WILL be lost before
    the end of the decay period, it will PROBABLY be lost at some average earlier
    time, and it MAY be lost quite early due to fluctuations.

  Bug fixes, v3.11.50:

    Bug:  When starting a new time limited game under revision 49, players are unable to create
    a new character.  This is caused by an uninitialized user record resulting in
    the user to timeout at this prompt.
    Fix:  The timeout test is not initiated until the new user has been properly
    initialized.

    Bug:  Gold aliens are not displayed in the Who's Playing list.
    Fix:  Probably in revision 49, a bug was created that caused the Gold
    aliens to stop reporting themselves as Online.  It is unclear how many things
    this might have effected besides the Who's Online list.

    Bug:  Frequent purchases of ships can lead to a profit in some cases.  This
    is caused by an overlap of the current selling price of fighters and the
    constant buy-back price.  The current method already depreciates fighter
    cost, but it is based on a static cost of 180c, not the current selling price.
    Fix:  I have changed the buy-back policy for fighters to be at a percentage
    of the current selling price.

  Bug fixes:  v3.11.51:

    Bug:  The current planet of a player can change during CIM processing.  CIM
    doesn't retain the current primary records for ships, planets, users, etc.
    Since it is a global, it can be entered from anywhere meaning it is possible
    to change the primary record when it would otherwise be considered static.
    Fix:  The primary records are saved before calling CIM, then restored after.

    Bug:  Related to the previous bug, global shared data can become corrupted
    when a global command is issued or when a player's session responds to
    interactive events.
    Fix:  I am in the process of removing several global data resources and
    replacing them with locally passed data.  I have completed the data resources
    for ports and planets.

    Change:  Added a Gold-only setting to disable Death Delay.  With Death Delay
    disabled, players can reenter the game immediately after being podded, and
    they won't lose their turns.

    Change:  Added a Gold-only setting to disable the # (Who's Online" display).
    When disabled, only the player, the player's Corp Mates, and Alien Races will
    appear on the list.

    Bug:  When a player is attacked, the player will not flee to an adjacent sector
    when figs owned by that player's Corporation are located there.  Also, if the
    player is destroyed, that player's pod will not escape.
    Fix:  Players are now allowed to flee to sectors occupied by figs from their own
    Corp.

    TEDIT Change:  When starting TEDIT from the TWGS console, a gameop can change
    the TEDIT global or local password without entering the existing password.  This
    will allow a gameop to recover from a lost password.

    Bug:  Fighters on a planet are sometimes not dampened by a Photon, EVEN when
    the planet does not have shields to protect them.  Also, shields would not
    always protect the planetary fighters from the Photon effect.
    Fix:  The fighters were only held if the sector itself had fighters that were
    Photoned.  If the sector had no fighters, the planetary fighters would go ahead
    and attack.  This has been changed to check for the planet Photon effect rather
    than the sector Figs photon effect.

    Bug:  Holds are defined to allow up to a maximum hold capacity of 255 to be
    defined for Gold ships.  But the Hold purchase routines set a cap on Holds at
    250.
    Fix:  This cap has been changed to 255.

    Bug:  The time and date are mishandled when a TW session is active over the
    change of a month.
    Fix:  The day is now set to 1 when the month changes.  This should fix the
    problem.

    Gold Change:  Added a setting to Gold behaviors to determine if Gold aliens
    will ignore other Gold and internal aliens.  If a Gold race is set to ignore
    other aliens, these behaviors are changed:

      An Interdictor won't trigger to hold another alien.
      Mines won't explode when another alien enters the sector.
      Fighters won't attack when another alien enters the sector.
      Quasars won't fire on aliens
      Won't capture another alien's planets.

    Change:  An upper bound of between 90,000 and 110,000 credits has been placed
    on the number of credits that can be gained during an attack on a Gold alien.

    Change:  Gold aliens are less liky to trade for profit when they are weak,
    making the amount of credits possessed by an alien correlate to the strength
    of the alien.

    Change:  Players are no longer allowed to fire Photons from FedSpace.

    Bug:  Whenever more than one Planetary Interdictor Generator is located in a sector
    and one player attacks another player so that the other player will attempt to flee,
    the attacking player's game session will crash.
    Fix:  Once I isolated the cause of this bug, it was clear that it was not strictly
    a PIG bug.  It was a low-level TW data system bug that has the potential to effect
    any number of areas of the game.  Fixing this bug could potentially solve other
    bugs that result in game crashes and data corruption.

  Bug fixes: v3.11.52:

    Bug:  A major system-wide bug was created in Rev 51 regarding the saving and restoring
    of primary game records (ships, planets, etc).  I had hoped that I could save and restore
    this around any player prompt so that any change in these records during interactive
    processing would not effect the state of the player.  But that's not possible and I've been
    forced to backtrack on this.
    Fix:  Now the primary records are only saved and restored around CIM processing.

    Change:  The FedSpace Photon limitation has been changed to effect only players
    who are protected in FedSpace, not all players.

    Change:  Added TEDIT setting for Gold games to allow FedSpace Photon limitation to
    be turned off.

  Bug fixes: v3.11.53:

    Bug:  NavHaz was created in Terra and StarDock sectors by a planetary collision.  The bug was created
    in revision 52.
    Fix:  NavHaz is no longer created in Terra or StarDock sector.

  Bug fixes: v3.11.54:

    Bug:  If a player transfers 0 credits to another player, a message is generated.  This has
    been exploited as a means to spam other players.
    Fix:  You now must transfer 1 or more credits before a message is generated.

    Bug:  It is possible to scan for StarDock using the Nav menu.
    Fix:  StarDock will not appear on the Nav menu until it has been visited.

    Bug:  Sometimes the message "Locator beam lost" will be displayed even when a player is
    not locked for TransWarp.
    Fix:  If you attempt to lock onto a fig for TransWarp, then say "no" to the
    TransWarp, the locked state remains and you'll get a message if something
    happens to the fighter you were locked onto.

    Bug:  If a ship without a pod destroys another ship with Corbomite devices so
    that the devices destroy the attacking ship, the ship with Corbomite will not be destroyed.
    Fix:  Both ships will now be destroyed.

    Bug:  If a player doesn't play the full time allotted in a time limited game,
    the time won't reset on the next day that the player connects.
    Fix:  The player is given the full amount of time on the next day.

    Change:  For unlimited turn games, the photon will disable a ship for one minute for each
    second of the Photon duration.  For a maximum Photon duration of 60 seconds, for
    example, the ship will remain inoperative for 1 hour.  The effect of the photon is
    to mimic the loss of turns, so that anything that would require a turn is not
    allowed during this time.  After the time has passed, the ship will be able to
    operate normally.  For a game without unlimited turns, the loss of turns exists
    until the end of the hour when turns are recovered.

    Bug:  When launching an Ether Probe into an adjacent sector, the output will sometimes be
    undefined.  The probe will continue plotting any sectors that are stored in the
    path array after the end of the course that was plotted.
    Fix:  The probe will now scan properly even for adjacent sectors.

    Change:  I've modified the way offensive fighters (in sector or on a planet) will attack.
    Before this change, fighters would limit their attack to 125% of the attacked ship's fighters
    and shields.  This causes problems when the ship is weak, or when it has no fighters or shields.
    In particular, it is a problem when a ship has high defensive odds, and can therefore
    often move into and out of a sector without being destroyed, regardless of the number of figs
    stationed in that sector.  The new system will allow sector figs to attack with 125% of the
    maximum fighters and shields for the ship, not the current amount.

    Change:  The high scores list from the Entry Menu will never have pauses, whether pauses have been
    enabled by the player or not.

    Bug:  For a time limited game, any change to the local configuration file by TEDIT or EXTERN would result
    in the player's game time being reset to unlimited.
    Fix:  The players game time will not be effected by changes in TEDIT.

    Bug:  For a planetary scanner, only three digits of a planet number will be displayed.
    Fix:  The maximum number of planets allowed for a standard game is 2000, and for a Gold game is
    8000.  The field has been expanded to handle four digits.

    Bug:  A ship in tow will remain in tow after a player has exited the game as long as the player doesn't
    completely exit Trade Wars (X from the Entry menu).
    Fix:  The ship is now released when the player exits to the entry menu.

    Bug:  If a player is towing a Corp ship, another player can sell that ship and the tow lock will
    remain active on that ship record number.  If another player buys are creates a ship, the tow will
    then be active on that new ship.
    Fix:  The tow is released when the ship is sold regardless of who is selling it.

  Bug fixes: v3.11.55:

    Change:  I've modified the settings in Bigbang related to Bubbles.  It is now
    possible to specify both a maximum and minimum number of links from a Bubble into
    the main area of the universe.  It is also possible to specify a minimum and maximum
    length of tunnel connecting a bubble with the main area of the universe.

    Bug:  A player can use the Take All product command to clear the turn cost for taking
    product.
    Fix:  The flag is no longer set to false at the start of any call to "Take All".

    Bug:  When a player is pinged multiple times using the SDF script, eventually
    the loss of turn will be turned off allowing the player to move without the cost
    of an additional turn.
    Fix:  Now, the only way to turn off this loss of turn flag is to actually use a turn.

    Bug:  If a player flees to another sector after an attack, any ship in tow will
    still be in tow, or the ship itself will still be in tow.
    Fix:  The tractor beam is released when the ship flees.

    Bug:  The amount of credits being given when a Gold alien is destroyed is being kept at higher
    than about 100,000 credits rather than UNDER 100,000.
    Fix:  The max has been replaced by a min.

    Bug:  Several problems have been reported having to do with salvaging ships during an attack.
    Fix:  A fix to an earlier bug seems to have broken salvaging.  I have reversed that change and
    attempted a new solution to the problem.

    Bug:  When a ship is destroyed, the pod won't escape past its own fighters or mines.
    Fix:  The pod is now able to escape past their own personal or corporation owned fighters and mines.

    Bug:  A player's avoids can effect the path that an escape pod will take when fleeing.
    Fix:  The avoids are no longer a factor in determining this path.

    Bug:  For tournament mode games, if a player is podded through some action of his or her own
          (like a Quasar or Port, as opposed to another player destroying you), other than CBY, and that
          player is over the death limit for the tournament, he/she will be dropped out of the game and
          will have to log back in to recover.
    Fix:  A player is no longer dropped from the game in these circumstances.  Only if the player has been
          actually destroyed, not podded, will the player drop.

  Bug fixes: v3.11.56

    Bug:  Some ports were inaccessible in games with bubbles.
    Fix:  The problem was created when tunnel sectors were scrambled during
          bigbang.  It has been resolved.

    Bug:  The number of active ports reported in the startup menu game stats
          screen only allows 4 digits.
    Fix:  The display now shows 5 digits.

    Change:  Added global Delete Mail command, ':'.

    NONPSERV Bug:  When multiple Gold races exist within a game, it is possible for
          two races to have overlapping homespace areas.
    Fix:  Gold aliens test for existing homespace before claiming a sector for their
          homespace.

    NONPSERV Change:  Gold aliens that control planets will now evict players
    from any planet they control.  A check for players is done each time an
    alien lands on a controlled planet.

    Bug:  For timed games that run extern at midnight, extra time is being allocated
          to a player who is online at midnight.
    Fix:  This has been fixed, and a change has been made to reset game time at midnight.
          Game time will no longer carry over if a player is online at midnight.

    Bug:  Fighters in a sector are sometimes truncated to 50,000 after an attack by
          a player or an alien.
    Fix:  The fighters are no longer trunctated to 50,000, even if there is not a planet
          in the sector.

    Bug:  If a player transfers 0 credits to another player, a message is generated.  This has
          been exploited as a means to spam other players.
    Fix:  You now must transfer 1 or more credits before a message is generated.

    Bug:  It is possible to scan for StarDock using the Nav menu.
    Fix:  StarDock will not appear on the Nav menu until it has been visited.

    Change:  Internal Ferrengi and Alien Traders must be activated or deactivated
    during Bigbang.  They can no longer be toggled from TEDIT.

    Bug:  When a player is podded while attacking a planet, a pause allows the
          player to remain with the planet instead of being ejected back into space.
    Fix:  The pause is no longer used whenever a player is repelled from the planet.

    Bug:  It is possible to exchange ships with a player who is not in the Citadel.
    Fix:  The game checks to verify that the player is still in the Citadel before
          completing the exchange.

    Bug:  A number of bugs are related to the use of globals from game prompts.
    Fix:  Globals are now limited to only command prompts.  Prompts like "how many
          fighters" will no longer allow globals.

          Prompts that currently allow globals:  Main Menu, Computer Menu, Corp
          Menu, Planet Menu, Citadel Menu, StarDock Menu, Tavern Menu, Autopilot,
          Retreat, and Planet Attack.

    Bug:  A player who is online 24/7 can be booted after the inactive player delay.
    Fix:  The player is now marked as having played on a given day even if the
          player has not logged off and back on.

    Bug:  A ship record bug exists when a player is towing a ship and selling another
          ship.
    Fix:  To avoid this and other similar bugs, any ships in tow are dropped on entry
          to the shipyard.

    Bug:  A similar bug exists when a player attempts to sell a ship that is in
          tow by another player.
    Fix:  Ships in tow are not listed on the "sell another ship" list.  Also, a
          test is done after a ship is selected for sale to verify that it is not
          in tow.

    Bug:  In combat, when a ship flees, it is not fleeing over Corp-affiliated
          fighters.
    Fix:  The flee procedure now checks for both player and corp affiliation with
          fighters.

    Bug:  When a player is carried on a planet, the "Last Sector" is set to 1.
    Fix:  This sector is now set to the location of the planet before the move.

    Change:  Added a TEDIT setting to implement a minimum login time for time-
          limited games.  This time ranges from 1 minute to 20 minutes.


  Bug fixes: 3.11.57

    Bug:  It is possible, through a towing bug, to launch a Photon into FedSpace.
    Fix:  The Photon prompt is terminated when a player is towed.

    Bug:  It is possible to upgrade a Citadel multiple times at the cost level
          of the first upgrade.
    Fix:  The game now verifies the conditions for a Citadel upgrade before
          initiating it.

    Bug:  While at the transport menu, if a player is podded and cannot flee,
          the transport range is not updated to that of the escape pod.
    Fix:  The proper transport range is now used.

    Bug:  Events that normally abort a prompt are not aborting Globals like
          CIM and FedComm.  This includes events like being evicted from a planet
          or ejected when the planet is destroyed.
    Fix:  Globals will now abort when the player's state is significantly changed.

    Bug:  The login time penalty change in revision 56 only covered certain
          logout conditions.
    Fix:  The remaining logout conditions have been included.
    
    Change:  The revision 56 change to globals has been expanded to create a new
             prompt behavior.  Prompts are now either interactive, or non-interactive.
             Interactive prompts allow the player to receive and send messages,
             while non-interactive prompts do not.  In general, all command prompts
             are interactive, while all information-gathering prompts are not.
             This is a TEDIT configuration, defaulting to non-interactive.

    New:  Messages that are received while a player is at a non-interactive prompt
          are queued up and then scrolled onto the screen when the player returns
          to an interactive prompt.

    Bug:  Changes to the system clock are not recognized by an active Trade Wars
          session.
    Fix:  TW now responds to a Windows time change event and resynchs its clock.

    Change:  Fighter Lock Decay has been changed to include an on/off toggle.  It
             is now possible to turn this feature off so that a Warp lock is
             lost the moment the remote fighter is destroyed.

    Bug:  It is possible to TransWarp a planet using less than the required amount
          of fuel.
    Fix:  The Planetary TransWarp function now double-checks the distance to the
          destination sector before engaging.

    Bug:  When a negatively aligned player attacks a positively aligned player,
          and the attacking player's experience is less than the victim's experience,
          the experience penalty that should be applied to the defeated player
          is applied to the victorious player.
    Fix:  This experience penalty is now properly applied to the defeated player.

    Bug:  When oppositely aligned players do battle, and the victor's experience
          is less than the defeated player's experience, an experience penalty
          is applied to the defeated player, but no message is sent indicating
          that the penalty was applied.
    Fix:  A message is now sent to the defeated player.


  Bug fixes: 3.11.58

    Bug:  The option to allow interactive sub-prompts was not allowing messages
    to be displayed.
    Fix:  Prompts now behave exactly as before when interactive sub-prompts are
    enabled.

    Change:  The number of messages queued while at a non-interactive sub-prompt
    has been limited to 20.  In the future, this will become a user setting,
    allowing the player to determine the number of messages to store and display.

    Change:  It is now possible to abort the display of queued messages using
    the space key.

    Bug:  Planet #2 is assumed to be Ferrengal when Ferrengal doesn't exist.
    Fix:  Planet #2 is only assumed to be Ferrengal if Internal Ferrengi has
    been set in Bigbang.

    Bug:  Dropping carrier while being attacked by a Ferrengi causes the player
    to lose at most one fighter, while the Ferrengi may lose multiple fighters.
    Fix:  Dropping carrier in this situation triggers an automatic Flee command.
    The player may lose fighters just as if he had fled the Ferrengi normally.

    Bug:  The state of a planet is not updated after a player succeeds in landing.
    If the player takes long enough to land, the state of the planet may have
    changed, and the player will see the planet in its original state.
    Fix:  The state of the planet is refreshed as soon as the player reaches the
    planet surface.

    New:  Added an experimental global to help scripts and helpers verify the
    active prompt.  Using the extended character ascii 145, a script or helper can
    tell TW to redisplay the active prompt, followed by the same ascii character,
    #145.  The result of issueing a #145 will be two newlines, followed by the
    prompt, followed by ascii 145 and a backspace.  In some cases, there will be
    additional dynamic information following the ascii 145, so it is not guaranteed
    that the 145 will be at the end of the prompt line.

      IMPORTANT:  This is experimental.  Do not integrate this fully into your
      scripts or helper until it has been verified to be effective and locked
      in as a feature. 

  v3.11.59

    Bug:  In revision 57, a fix intended to resolve missed messages resulted in
    a bug that has caused file lock errors.
    Fix:  Another attempt has been made to address the missed messages bug without
    causing locked file errors.

    Bug:  When quiet prompts are used, queued messages are displayed even if
    the messages are silenced.
    Fix:  Silence message mode now includes display of queued messages.

    Bug:  The announcement file, when accessed the first time, generates an error.
    Fix:  A test for zero file length is used to avoid accessing the file before
    it contains any text.


  v3.11.60

    No changes.  v3.11.59 was released with the wrong TW2002.EXE, without the
    locked file fix.  This release includes the correct version of the file.s

  v3.11.61

    Bug:  There are still reports of index lock errors.
    Fix:  Further changes have been made to the message index synchronizing method
    to resolve these locked index errors.

  v3.11.62

    Debug changes only.  Changed output to error log.

  v3.11.63

    Bug:  Under certain conditions, the game may crash during transporting.
    Fix:  Changes to the transport routine have been made in an attempt to
    overcome these crashes.

  v3.11.64 (Released as v3.12, 05/13/2004)

    Bug:  Changes to a player's state that occur while the player is in CIM
    may be lost when the player exits CIM.
    Fix:  Changes to the player's state are now retained after the player
    leaves CIM.

    Bug:  Globals are not functional after a command has been issued in CIM.
    Fix:  Globals will now be available at all times from the CIM menu.

    Bug:  Output of the Fig Lock Decay setting to the settings text file includes
    color format codes.
    Fix:  The format codes are no longer included in this output.

    Change:  Tightened up transport procedure to decrease errors related to
    multiple players transporting to and from the same ship.

    Change:  Tightened up ship exchange procedure to decrease errors related to
    multiple players exchanging at one time.

    Bug:  The ownership of ships exchanged in the Citadel was not being properly
    updated after an exchange.
    Fix:  The ship ownership is now properly swapped.

    Cosmetic Change:  References to costs no longer use the $ sign, and instead
    use cr for credits.

    Change:  Removed message index locking to determine if which remaining bugs
    are related to that change.

  v3.12 released, 05/13/2004


TWGS Release - v3.10

  Fixed a bug that allowed two players to log in to the game as the
  same player.

  GOLD: Fixed a bug that allowed some Gold ships to sell back for more than
  they were purchased for.  This change results in ships being sold
  back for somewhat more than in previous versions if they have the
  same number of holds as they started with.  The resale value is
  decreased if you have less holds than the ship had when it was
  sold and increased based on the hold value for any holds over the
  initial number.  The base holds of a ship are considered to be part
  of the package and are not priced according to the usual rules for
  hold value.

  Fixed a bug that caused your own Planetary Interdictor to hold you
  from retreating from hostile figs in sector.

  Sol, Alpha Centauri, Rylos, and Stargate Alpha I are now reconstructed
  by the Feds when the radiation runs out.  This is currently set to
  14 days but I intend to make this configurable in the future.  Destroying
  these ports will become increasing difficult as they are destroyed
  and rebuilt.

  GOLD: Added "Reset" option to ship, planet and alien editors.  This
  allows the gameop to always return the standard ships, planets and
  aliens to their standard settings.

11/13/98 - v3.09

  Added Ether Probe move delay option, configurable from TEDIT.  This
  will allow sysops to slow down the use of Ether Probes.  This will
  alter the play of the game, especially early on, but might be useful
  for some games that are overloaded by too much E-Probe activity.

  Fixed problem with move delay that was using too much CPU.

  Changes to Corporate ships.

    A Corp ship (Requires Corp status to fly) can't be set to personal.
    To keep someone in your corporation out of your ship, set the password.

    If a corporation goes extinct, the ship you are flying will remain
    in your possession, but once you leave the ship you won't have
    access to it again.

    Corporate ships abandoned when the corporation goes extinct will be
    owned by "defunct Corp".  To capture a "defunct Corp" ship, you must
    be a member of a corporation.

    In standard Trade Wars, CEO ships can never be exchanged in a Citadel.
    With Gold, Corporate ships (not CEO) can be exchanged, but only between
    members of the same corporation.

    GOLD: Corporate ships can't be purchased by non-corp players.

  GOLD: Menus for ships and planets will only offer the next page option
  if more ships or planets than can be displayed exist.

  GOLD: Only active ships and planets are shown in the game.

  GOLD BIGBANG: was clearing the active flag for all ships, planets and
  aliens, requiring you to go back and reset them all to on.  This is no
  longer being done.

  GOLD BIGBANG: Added option to clear all ships, planets, and aliens to
  inactive.

  GOLD: Deleted records are not removed automatically when BIGBANG is run.
  They must be removed manually.  You can copy a ship to a deleted spot,
  then remove the original ship to fill in gaps.

  GOLD: Added AI setting of Protective.  When a player attacks an alien
  with this setting, that alien and all others of the same race in the same
  sector will attack back.

  GOLD: Added AI setting of Banding.  Can now specify how many are typically
  in a group, and the aliens will tend to move around in these clusters.

  GOLD: Modified the spawning profile tab in the Alien Editor.  The new features
  give much more insight into how the aliens will appear in the game depending
  on the parameters you select.

  GOLD: Added a new option to the Alien Resource menu to sample the available
  ships for the alien race.  This takes the guesswork out of determining what
  ships will be available at what time in the game.

  GOLD: 0 days until a ship rating is available now means that the rating will
  always be available instead of meaning that the maximum experience for day 0
  is the threshold for gaining access to a ship of this rating.  From day 1 on,
  the threshold is defined as the maximum possible experience for that day.

  GOLD: Fixed several general problems with Gold and the Nonplayer server.

  GOLD: Added "anomalous alien" setting.  If enabled, there's a one percent
  chance per event that an alien will be spawned as if it was from 100 to 200 days
  more advanced.

  GOLD: Unique aliens are now displayed with a gold name instead of red or cyan for
  good or evil.

  GOLD: GRUDGES!!!!!  All Gold alien races now have the option of carrying a grudge against
  players who destroys one of their own.  Here's how it works.  Grudges are only
  maintained while the server is active, so shutting it down and restarting it will
  clear the grudges.  If there are enough complaints about this, I'll see about saving
  the grudges to a the alien record.  The severity of the grudge is determined by your
  place on the grudge list.  Newer grudges are put at the top of the list and are more
  severe.  Only ten grudges are maintained, so when a grudge reaches the bottom of the
  list it drops off (is forgotten).  Whenever an alien attacks a begrudged player, the
  force of the attack is increased by the grudge level.  Lastly, grudges are only created
  when a player destroys an alien IN VIEW OF one of the same race.  If a player destroys
  a lone alien, no grudge will result.  If one alien views the massacre, he will broadcast
  it to all other aliens in that race and they will ALL hold a grudge.

  GOLD: Aliens can regenerate.  Regeneration occurs each time an alien attempts
  to move, and the fighters and shields of the alien will regenerate toward the
  average value for the current day.

  EXTERN: Planet collisions are now generating NavHaz.

  EXTERN: Planet collisions now works correctly, even with online players involved.

  EtherProbe now uses avoids again.

  Game now differentiates between "on planet" and "in citadel".

  When a player enters or exits the citadel, other players in the citadel will receive
    a message.

  Fighters in sector without a planet is limited to 50K.  Fighters in sector
  with a planet is limited to 2,000,000,000.  This was reversed and the upper
  limit for planets was set to 2,000,000.  All fixed now!

  Added "<;> Scan Current Ship" option to computer menu.  This command will
  display information about any ship you are flying, even if it's of an alien
  origin (Ferrengi, for example).

  If a player drops carrier during the initialization routine, the records
  won't be committed.

  When towing a player into a hostile sector, if the tower is destroyed on
  entering the sector, the towee is returned to the previous sector.

  Two game sessions with the same player cannot be active at the same time.
  When a new game attempts to start it will kick off the old game.

  Modified the message system to fix a bug that caused messages to be missed.

  EXTERN now runs in "multitask" mode if a player is in the game, and will run faster
  if no player is in the game.

  EXTERN: In an attempt to avoid the ship pointer bug, EXTERN now checks to see
  if the ship occupied by a player who's about to be terminated from inactivity
  is not being used by any other players.  If it's being used, the ship is
  not deactivated.

  Fixed index bug:  When swapping ships in Citadel, the offline player was
  being put into the other ship but the ship was being set to "unoccupied"
  status.

  Fixed index bug:  When TEDIT and EXTERN would access certain ships, they
  would turn on the occupied and active flags.  This is no longer the case.

  Fixed Shipyard bug:  Two corp players could sell the same ship.

  Fixed Tricron:  Now works with multiple players.  Tricron stats are updated
  after each game to reflect games played by other players.

  GOLD: When you're flying a FedShip without enough experience, you can be
  stopped by the Feds.  Your ship will be forfeit and you will be demoted
  to start of the previous rank.

  EXTERN:  When evil port busts are not cleared because EXTERN doesn't
  run, they will clear the next time EXTERN is run.  Before, if you
  had the bust clears set for every 7 days, and on the 7th day EXTERN
  didn't run for some reason, the busts wouldn't clear for 14 days.
  Now it will clear on the 8th day, and the next clear will be right
  on schedule.  That means that if EXTERN didn't run for 3 days, then
  the busts get cleared, they'll be scheduled to clear again in 4 days
  instead of 7 to get back on track.

  EXTERN:  Port's weren't upgrading properly because I wasn't updating
  the planets in the sector before checking for product.  It's fixed
  now.

  Fixed "Visible while at SD" bug.  This actually worked for any port.
  A player who was on a port could be forced to take-off and become
  visible to others while the online player believed he/she was still
  on port.  This has resulted in many player deaths.

  TEDIT Corp editor, was only accepting first character of inputs.

  TEDIT Added Sysop setting for users.  This will allow a player to have
  sysop capabilities regardless of the sysop level supplied by the drop
  file.  For local and Internet connections, this is the only way to have
  sysop access.

  CIM will abort as soon as an abortive key is pressed.  Previously, there
  was no way to abort these reports.

  NONPSERV: Aliens are effected by planetary interdictor generators.

  Ships can't interdict while cloaked or on a planet or port.

04/05/98 - v3.08 released

  Added "password entry" option.  Intended for local games, this feature
  requires a player to maintain a password and will maintain the
  integrity of each players account.

  Added "closed game" option.  Intended for tightly moderated games for
  both BBS and non-BBS based games.  Using the new "Closed Game List"
  facility in TEDIT, sysop's can maintain a list of players allowed to
  play a given game.  This should limit many forms of cheating, particularly
  dupe accounts.

  Fixed some problems for WinNT users running the DPMI version.

  Fixed a problem with the user data file being created from BigBang.

03/26/98 - v3.07 released

  Forget the minor revisions.  Gary doesn't like it.  All releases will
  be v3.07, v3.08, etc.  They'll just come more frequently.

  Fixed problem created by v3.06b that caused players to go into sector
  10000 after being destroyed and reentering.

  Removed SHARED.DLL.  Was more trouble than it was worth.  This increases
  the size of each DPMI session by about 40K, which shouldn't cause
  any problem.

  Fixed problem with Alien spawing (standard, not Gold) that allowed
  Aliens in very old games to have HUGE fighters, shields, corbo, etc.


03/21/98 - v3.06b released

  Fixed bug that was corrupting data when capturing an alien

  Fixed bug that was corrupting data when podding a player

  Fixed bug that was allowing an online player to continue playing after
    being killed.

  Fixed bug that caused CIM to lock up if online player in CIM was killed,
    podded, or towed.

  Added "^" global for entering Computer Interrogation Mode.

03/18/98 - v3.06

Added Gold expansion functionality.

Added math-coprocessor emulation to DPMI release.

Fixed "runtime 200" error for fast computers.

Fixed a bug that caused ships and/or players to be flagged as "on a planet"
  when they aren't, or flagged as not "on a planet" when they are.  The
  result was that they were invisible in the sector, but visible to scanners,
  or vice versa.

Rewrote the underlying output functions in an effort to consolidate all output
  routines.  Results are

    More efficient ANSI streams
    Increased functionality in output formatting
    Better support for non-standard page lengths, including 43.

Fixed TWTRADER.TXT and TWTRADER.ANS reports for Trader ranking.  I don't know
  how long these haven't worked, but they work fine now.

Fixed problem with BUFFER= command line option.

Fixed the bound check on "Enter Corp" entry.  It was allowing corp numbers
  greater than 50.

Fixed problem with capturing Alien and Ferrengi ships.

Fixed problem with DPMI version FOSSIL support.

Fixed bug that was causing only positive alignment aliens to be spawned.

Fixed similar bug that was causing Alien corbomite values to be either 65535
  or 0.

Rewrote the mail system.  The previous system has been causing slowdowns and
  lockups, particularly when the mail file has grown beyond 500K.  The new
  system is much more efficient and compact.

Removed experimental "Persistent Info Display" option.  The "quick-stats"
  line will now only appear when the "/" key is pressed.

When transporting a planet, all online players on the planet will stay on
  the planet.  This bug was causing players to be invisible in a sector
  (they were flagged as on a planet).

When a corp is dispanded, planets and ships in the CEOs sector will become
  the property of the CEO, as with Figs, Armid and Limpet mines.  Outside
  the sector, planets will become Rogue and ships will become Abandoned.

EXTERN now processes deleted players as if the player was quitting his/her
  corp.  This should solve the problem of "orphaned" corps with no CEO.

Fixed Ether Probe bug.  The probe would self-distruct if it couldn't find a
  path to the destination.  The probe was usually unable to find a path because
  of avoids set by the user.  The probe now ignores avoids.

Can't retreat from fighters if an Interdictor Generator is present on a planet
  in the sector.  You can if an IC is in the sector, though.

Fixed bug that caused fighter report to show sectors with 0 fighters.

11/09/97 - v3.05 released

Fixed bug that allowed transfer of fighters and shields as a player was selling
ships at stardock.

Fixed problem with lag time tracking on Win95 systems.

Fighter, shield, mine corp transfers now allow 12 digits.

When attacking an unoccupied ship, attack routine now detects when a player
transports into the ship and handles the attack accordingly.

Corp transfers no longer display cloaked players.

Q-Cannon atmosphere attack was malfunctioning in two ways.  First, it was
  firing at sector levels, and second, it wasn't destroying fighters.

Messages were being displayed while a player was at a port.  These messages
  could cause malfunctions with scripts and helpers.  They have been turned
  off.  Communications will still be displayed.  They should be turned off
  by the player.

Photon Missile update:

  Photon Missiles are now functioning for multiple players.  Due to an oversight,
    the Photon Missile effect was only active for the player that launched the
    missile (a carry-over from the single-player v2).  Now the effect exists for
    all players, regardless of the launcher.

  The player launching a Photon missile will receive notification of the
    duration at 10 second intervals, and at 5 seconds left, no matter what
    sector he/she is in.

  All players in the sector of the launching player receive a notification
    that the missile was launched.

  All players in the sector of the Photon blast will receive the same updates
    as the launcher (10 second intervals, 5 seconds left).

  Displaying the sector will show that a Photon blast has recently occurred,
    and the duration of the effect.

  A player may launch more than one Photon Missile, but can only track the
    last Missile launched.  That means that the only way to gauge the
    duration of a Photon after launching another one is to enter the sector
    and check the Display.

  Photon Missiles can't be purchased from StarDock if they're disabled in the
    game.

Fixed problem with attacking a ship with a Planetary Interdictor active.  When
  the ship attempted to flee, the game would become unstable.

Fixed bug that allowed pick-up/drop-off of colonists > 255 on your planet.

Added TEDIT option to alter the Port regeneration rate.  Values range from
  1% to 200% per day.  Standard is 5%, which is the rate that ports regenerate
  in all previous versions.

Added global key </> to display quick reference of player info.  Also, under
  computer, personal settings, setting option 7, "Persistent info display" to
  on will cause the </> key to toggle this display on or off.  When on, it
  will be displayed at the top of the screen.

Limit of 2 pods per user per day is now enforced as in MBBS.  This means a
  player can only be "podded" twice per day.  The third time results in
  death, even if the ship has a pod.

Added a new user configuration option (C/N/8) to turn all event messages off.

Added option to TEDIT to enable or disable multiple Photon missiles for a
  single player.  By default, a player may only have one missile active at
  a time.

Computer/Known Universe, List Avoids now formats properly to screen width, and includes
  CR at end of line.

Course list now has a CR at end of each line.

Fixed problem with day of week reporting in time functions.

Embezzle busts are cleared nightly now, except for the very last bust.

A setting in TEDIT now determines the frequency of bust clearing. It defaults
 to nightly, but can be set as high as every 28th day.

T'Khasi Orion can now carry a Holo Scanner.

Ferrengi Assault Trader can now carry a Density or Holo Scanner.

Transport menu now offers the ability to get more detailed information about
  any of the ships listed.

"Backtrack Key" is now only "<" instead of "<" or ",".

Fixed "dupe" names.  Before, someone could be in the game with BBS name "A"
  and alias "B", while another player was in the game under BBS name "B".
  This is no longer possible.

When a player reenters the game in a Scout Marauder, he/she gets the minimum
  of 250 figs, or the Initial Fighters value, instead of up to 2500 figs.

Made logic change to time routine that MIGHT have been causing some problems.
  When reading the time, the routine reads date, then time, and then determines
  the total seconds since the game started.  If the date gets read, then the
  clock rolls over to midnight in the instant before the time gets read, the
  time would be interpreted as 24 hours earlier.  In this event, the timing
  would be thrown of for that Tick.  In rare cases, this could cause the
  "inactivity timeout" to trigger.  The new approach doesn't have this problem,
  and is more efficient.

EXTERN now cleans up the message file of any mail left in the mail file for
  various reasons.  Mail is deleted if the destination player is inactive,
  or if the time of the message is over the "days til deletion" value set
  to delete old players.

Ship's can't interdict from ANY FedSpace sector.

Fixed problem with "Last Ported" reporting.  Any update of the port was setting
  the last ported time, when it should only be set when a ship physically
  ports there.

Attack is aborted if enemy docks or lands while you are attacking.

Added hidden global, <|>, to toggle silence mode.  This will simplify the
  task of turning off messages while scripts and helpers are running.

Last bust clear operation is reported in Game Settings screen on startup menu

07/17/97 - v3.04 released

Reworked bug fix from v3.03 release.  See * item in that section.  Several
new problems appeared after making this change, so I have made another attempt
at solving the problem.

Added file error reporting to help clarify startup problems.

07/01/97 - v3.03 released

Port reports 0 buy/sell, 0% of max until open.

Port opens with 0% buy/sell.  Regeneration begins at the moment of port
opening.

If EXTERN detects port DaysTillComplete less than 0, it sets to 0.  Before,
if was incrementing if less than 0.  I could not see any use of negative
values here.

Sector entries of 599 or less require 4th digit.  600 and above are auto-CR.
This is identical behavior to pre-v3 door releases.

When Corporate Planet Scan was called from within a Citadel, the current
planet pointer was not being reset on exit from Corp menu.  This caused
planet records to become confused in some cases.  This has been fixed.

Transfering to another ship without password doesn't ask.

Transfering to another ship sets your ship to allow ship transfers.

Can now blind-transwarp with ship in tow.

Robbing text is now "...siphon the funds out and..." as in MBBS.

Transport list handles abort properly.

Added SHARE command line parameter.  Calling with the SHARE override causes
TW2002 to skip the share detection routine and assume SHARE is loaded.

Added message for EtherProbe entering sector.  Need more detail on how to
handle this event.

* Made file-access change with potential to effect multiple areas of the game.
  Certain combinations of accesses were causing information to be lost.  This
  change will fix that problem, but could conceivably introduce some other
  problem(s).

Fixed combat bug, not losing any fighters, caused by the previous error.

Can now recover credits for destroying ships other than escape pod and
marauder.

Fixed bug in buy-ship routine that wasn't committing the credits to the
user record properly.  This is the source of the profitable ship trade bug.

Changed file access mode of overlay to DENYNONE.  This was causing the
error 150 when the overlay wasn't loaded into EMS.

Fixed bug that caused the corp attack failsafe to trigger for non-corp
unnocupied ships.

Fixed bug that was reporting personal ship as corp ship destroyed in log file.

Fixed bug that was allowing unmanned ships to flee a sector after an attack
even if an interdictor generator is present.

Fixed bug that was reading the sysop level incorrectly from the drop file.

Fixed various bugs that allowed planets to appear as both corporate and personal.

Fixed a bug with the "landing planet list" that was corrupting planet records.

Input is echoed in CIM.


06/01/97 - v3.02 released

Attacking with 0 ships is no longer allowed!

Removed SHARE detection for OS2 machines.

EXTERN:  Fixed GP resulting from delete player routine.

EXTERN:  Won't evict players who are online at the time.

EXTERN:  Only counts offline players when counting the number of ships left
in a Fed sector overnight.

Conversion of message file with 0 records doesn't generate division by 0.

Scan defaults to Density when 0 turns left.

Long course plots are not longer truncated at 160 characters.

Reporting correct ship type when destroying Aliens.

Atmosphere Quasar attack is now reported.

Destroying a corp owned ship, whether occupied or not, will go into the
logs as Corp# instead of by the pilot's name.

You can now change ownership and posture of fighters without adding or
removing them from a sector.

Fixed an Error 204 in the program exit procedure.  This was causing many
other errors to be reported as Error 204.  They will now be reported
properly.

Added LastSectRobbed to user record so this value will persist between
game sessions.  This will fix the ability to exit the game and reenter
to rob the same port twice in a row.  Should slow down the Steal-Sell cycle.

Removed 15 unnused characters from the ship record shipname field.

Removed unnused fields from Sector record.

Fixed a bug that was preventing Planet Upgrades from being committed to the
data file under certain circumstances.  This could be responsible for the
occasional planet that doesn't seem to be upgrading.

TEDIT:  Zero entry allowed for sector warps.

TEDIT:  Port production values can be negative.

TEDIT:  < and > step through the ports displayed under Port Edit.

TEDIT:  Planet production rates are displayed properly.

Data conversion from v2 to v3.01 loses all mine owner information.  This has
been fixed for conversion from v2 to v3.02, but conversion from v3.01 to v3.02
won't repair the lost owner information.  Conversion from v3.00 to v3.02 works
fine.

Travels and Avoids data was not being written properly to the data file,
causing some sector information to be lost after quitting the game.  This
has been fixed.

Converting from v3.00 or v3.01 data will clear all avoids due to the above
problem.

Revised drop file read procedure to handle unexpected data more gracefully.

Added DATA= parameter to assign a default directory for the data files at
runtime.  This directory will be overridden by a non-default node-specific
data directory.  Works for TW2002 and TEDIT.

<ENTER> now interrupts all processes that can be interrupted by <SPACE>.
Long displays, auto-pilot warping, etc. are effected.

Changed the way TW handles the input buffer.  Now, long displays that check
for <ENTER> or <SPACE> to interrupt them won't read and discard all keypresses
waiting in the input buffer.  As a result, keyboard macros and helpers will
function more smoothly.  A negative result is that only the first character
in the buffer will be checked for the display interrupt keys.  If another
character gets into the buffer first, then the display can't be interrupted.

Addressed several problems with DESQview.  A maximum 5000 sector game should
now run in a typical DESQview window leaving enough memory for processing.
Sessions with many scarce conventional ram may only be able to run a smaller
universe.

Fixed an error with the Fossil support that caused all ports to appear as
port 1 (oops).  This should improve the Fossil support somewhat.

Sector entries from 0-599 accept a four digit entry, but entries from 600
to 999 auto-return.  This is identical to previous Trade Wars behavior.


04/16/97 - v3.01 released

Added periodic online verification.  Each player online checks the next
  player online in order by user record number.  This check occurs every
  five minutes.  If the player being checked does not reply in 10 seconds,
  then the player is removed from the online list, and some cleanup takes
  place (like removing the player from a planet on which he/she cannot
  remain).

Added a flag to User record to indicate that the player is online.  If the
  program finishes properly, this flag will be set to off.  If, on startup,
  this flag is on, then some cleanup takes place (like removing the player
  from a planet on which he/she cannot remain).

Added a low level primary record justification to commit and put procedures.

Added a check of the Online flag in the message file at the beginning of
  each processing interval.  If the flag is off, then it is turned back on.
  This is a self-correction in case, for any reason, you fail to reply to
  an Online Verification message.

Fixed pointer error with Fossil communications.  Fossil is working again.

Fixed problem with left-padded field display when field contains ansi
  sequences.

Revamped TWSMF.DAT message file.  This file now cleans itself up as it is
  used.  Should result in much smaller TWSMF.DAT files in general, and
  quicker access to messages.

Fixed yet another invincible planet bug.

Tri-cron won't be interrupted by messages.

Fixed guarded planet bug that caused the next planet you attempted to land
  on to show as the planet that was guarded.

Fixed combat routine to handle case of 0 fighters and >0 shields.

Conversion routine detects the extra byte in TWNODE.DAT records in later
  v2 betas, processes accordingly.

Fixed scan for mines.  Now when emptying sector of mines, the sector no
  longer shows up on scan with 0 mines.

Fixed problem with menu help screens (!) running past end of menu text.

Computer and Corp menus from citadel won't switch your planet record.

Fixed problem with Alien ship combat.  Damage wasn't being committed to
  the alien record when the alien fled.

Radio channels are now available from 0 to 60000.

Major messaging/mail overhaul.

  The messaging system is now seperate from
  the user mail system.  TWSMF.DAT is now devoted to game messaging, while
  TWMAIL.DAT contains all mail correspondence.

  The mail and message files are packed periodically for efficiency.

    For mail, all messages that have been read by the user in that session
    will be removed from the file as the user exits the game.  They are
    physically removed, and the file shrinks accordingly.

    For messages, each message has a lifetime of 10 seconds.  If the message
    is older than 10 seconds, then it can be removed from the message file
    at the next pack operation.  These operations occur when a user exits
    the game, or whenever the message file reaches 100 messages.  This may
    be made configurable in the future if necessary.  As it is now, the
    message file can never be greater than 101 records in length, or 17271
    bytes in length.  Since the message file handles all interactivity, this
    will guarantee efficient message handling.

  Each user maintains a pointer to the last message processed by its session,
  and all processing occurs from this point forward.  This greatly limits
  the possible number of message reads during an interval cycle, so that the
  maximum possible is the number of messages added in 1 second (unless this
  interval is increased).  When the file is packed, the user receives
  notification of this, and resyncronizes this pointer.  I haven't seen any
  losted messages, duplicate messages, or loss of message syncronization
  since I made this change, but we need to watch out for this.  I'm concerned
  that it may happed in rare circumstances.

  If a mail message was added during an active session, but not read, it
  won't be removed on exit.  All messages are displayed on logon, so these
  messages will be removed after the next logon/logoff cycle.

  Messages sent to mail via the computer mail system go into mail only, but
  all computer generated messages, like fighter reports, etc, go into the
  mail and are displayed for a user if that user is online.  These messages
  are not deleted on exit unless they have been explicitely read from the
  computer mail system.  This could be confusing, but it will avoid any
  loss of important information.  We can't guarantee just because it goes
  into the real-time messaging file that it has been viewed by the user.

  An online user receives notification upon receiving new mail.

  Hail is now seperate from mail.  You can only send a hail to an online
  user.  If the user isn't online, the one-line hail will be sent, but
  will "fall on deaf ears".  A multi-line hail mode can only be entered if
  the target user is online.  These messages ARE NOT ENTERED INTO USER MAIL,
  so you can no longer use this function in place of the computer mail
  system.  One-line messages sent to a user that is not online will be lost.

  FedComm/Sub-space/Hail/Mail prompts are now more explicit as to the type
  of messages being entered.  This avoids confusion when entering one message
  and jumping into another via global commands.

Added global chat to tavern.

Fixed a transfer logic error involving ship to ship transfers like those at
  the corp menu.  This involved transfers between ships of different types,
  where the transfer used the boundaries set by the local ship for both,
  allowing the other ship to sometimes exceed it's limits.

Modified real-time message routine so that it only processes messages that
  have not expired (10 seconds lifetime).  Also, put zero-record hold in the
  Add Message routine to syncronize adds and deletes.  Now, adds and deletes
  can only occur once at a time, but there is no file locking for reads.

Revised SHARE detection.  It is less strict now.

Fixed last ported report.  Should now correctly report the time since a
  trader ported, instead of that they just left.

Now start in sector 1 if planets not allowed.

Fixed a ship to ship combat bug related to the corp transfer bug.  When
  two unlike ships are in combat, the attacked ship was inheriting the
  field boundaries of the attacker.

The size of the TW overlay buffer is now dynamically set depending on the
  amount of free memory available to the session.  This will give more
  memory to those who have not been able to run the game so far (error 203).
  This buffer was 100K, but can go as low as 45K with out a devastating
  impact on the games performance.  If the game does not use EMS or XMS for
  the overlay file, then you should keep this buffer as large as possible.

04/01/97 - v3.00 released

Can remain in citadel overnight.

Fixed multiple boundary bugs effecting the last user, ship, sector, etc.

Alien trader and Ferrengi ships are now processed on a time-base rather
  than a turn base.  The one-in-X move percent no longer represents a chance
  that the character will move for each player turn, but a chance that the
  character will move every 30 seconds.  The next reasonable interval is 70
  seconds, and this may be made configurable, since it would lighten the
  load on slower computers.  As it is, there are 10 "banks" of Aliens,
  Ferrengi, and Federation Captains.  Each bank attempts movement every
  3rd second.  When there are 50 Ferrengi + 40 Aliens + 3 Federals,
  93 non-player characters, this averages out to 9.3 ships per bank.  This
  is approximately 3 ships attempting movement every second, though movement
  only occurs every third second.

Planetary Shields can now be destroyed.

Ships can now be salvaged from combat properly again.

Fixed incorrect population line on corporation planet list.

Removed Auto <CR> from Terra colonist pick-up.  Should help those helpers.

User record now varies in size according to sectors in game, no wasted space.

Day of week of game now reports correctly.

Command and Computer Command prompts don't display menu at CR, only at ?.

03/05/97

Planets are once again producing properly.

Added Surrender to sector fighter menu.

NO NavHaz can be created at StarDock for any reason.

Ether-probe and Holoscan won't cause "void" prompt when scanning mined
  sectors.

Interdictor generators don't function at StarDock and Terra.

Unoccupied ships can't have Interdictor on.

Fixed problems with Planetary Transport.

Must kill trader to get bounty/contract.  Not just destroy ship.

Made some changes to combat routine regarding ship captures.  Can't capture
  when the ship is a Scout Marauder or Escape Pod.

Can't overwrite StarDock with a carry-over created port.

Created daily event flag to limit certain activities.  These are, at the
  moment, curse Grimy Trader, try to break into Corp, and jettison colonists.
  There is room for 13 more such event flags.

Limited photon-wave effect on planets to those with less than 200 shields.

Fixed underground name-change routine to handle the 0-4500000 experience
  range.  I set the maximum amount to be charged to 999,999,999 since this
  is the maximum that a trader could possibly have onhand.

For the moment, two different traders can deploy mines of one type each in
  a given sector.  To clarify, one trader may deploy Armid mines, while
  another trader has deployed Limpet mines in the same sector.

Can launch photons in Rylos and Alpha Centauri sectors.

NavPoint menus only show sector scan if the sector is in FedSpace, the
  sector is your current sector, or you have at least one fighter deployed
  in that sector.  Otherwise, it reports "No Scan" for that sector.

Natural disasters have been stabilized with regard to frequency of visits.
  Now, the chance for a disaster is minimal if the last visit was recent,
  and greater as the length between visits increases.  If a planet has a
  habitability of 90, there is a 10% chance of a disaster if the period
  between visits is 1 day.  There is a 100% chance of a disaster if the
  period has been 10 days.  If the period is 11 days, then one disaster
  will occur, with a 10% chance for a second disaster.

The ports are again upgrading.  This was a bug that effected the ability
  to determine a field's maximum value during a locked process, and was
  probably effecting many areas of the game.

Only taxed once per day, instead of once every time you enter the game.

If an amount of experience or alignment would put you beyond the limit,
  you are given the boundary value.  Before, this would not give any
  amount because it would go beyond the boundary.

02/28/97

CIM entry now works.

Earth now takes one turn to load colonists.

Added multiplayer code for towing.  Now, towing is discontinued when
  the tower or towee lands on a planet, port, or dock, or initiates an attack

Included messages for users to see when towing begins and ends.

Created new prompt attribute, Escape, so that prompts can be made to
  abort in the case of some event, particularly intended to deal with
  tow bugs.  Now, certain prompts can be made to abort whenever the
  trader is towed to another sector, falling back to the previous non-
  abortive prompt.  This will solve some nasty problems with prompt
  "carry-overs", where a trader can circumvent a locked-out function
  by initiating it in a sector where the function is not locked out,
  then being towed into another sector to complete the function.
  An example is the destruction of StarDock, where combat is initiated
  in an adjacent sector, but completed upon towing in the StarDock sector.

NavHaz collisions were overwriting the sector containing the navhaz with the
  sector to which an escape pod escaped.  This is fixed now.

Fighter Xfer for corps now functional.

When player dies and then reenters, a new ship is created properly now.

Fixed those annoying messages when a new user starts up.

Activated abortive prompts, so that certain functions are aborted when
  the trader is towed to another sector

Added fail-safe record sync check to abort operations which may overwrite
  another record.

When a trader is online and on a planet, and the planet is blown up from
  under them, they will be dropped to the main command prompt.

When a trader is online and evicted from a citadel, he is dropped to the
  main command prompt.

Can now receive port report from auto-pilot prompt.

Occupied corp ships aren't displayed on the X-Port list.

Interdicting flag is set to off when purchasing a new ship, and when escaping
in an escape pod.  This solves bugs with interdiction carrying over to new
ships.

Density scan showing occupied ships as 40, unoccupied as 38, and cloaked ships
as 0 with Anom Yes

Can't upgrade a port that is under construction.

After blowing up a planet, trader "reenters" sector triggering NavHaz check.

Ports are again fighting back.

Some locked transactions were not resetting the records after a failed
attempt.  I'm not aware of any bugs stemming from this, but there probably are
some.  It has been fixed.

02/22/97

Citadel now upgrading correctly for level 2 and beyond!

Many revision to guarantee identical output between previous DOS versions and
2MP.

Revisions to Interrogation mode:
  Can now be entered from any prompt, but not from within Interrogation.
  No global functions work in Interrogation mode.
  Interrogation mode can timeout from inactivity.
  Interrogation mode will exit if allotted time expires.
  For debugging purposes, Interrogation mode can be entered with the key
    sequence of "$%^&*(", or SHIFT-4 through SHIFT-9;

Modified port and planet update functions for 1 second resolution upgrade.

Fixed a data-conversion bug that inverted the BUYing amount for ports when
  converting from earlier TW data to 2MP data.

Overhauled "upgrade port" function.  Port production is now maxed out at
  65530.

"Upgrade port" is now a locked function to avoid multi-player conflicts.

Finished make-over for TEDIT.

StarDock now starts at 100% BUY when game is reset.

Turns return to a player pro-rated at 1 hour intervals.

Sector Fighter combat is now multiplayer safe.

02/17/97

All text removed from executables and placed into a data file, STRTABLE.D8A,
with an index called STRTABLE.NDX.  Encrypted to discourage meddling sysops
from corrupting the string table ;).

Global commands can only be first character entered on any command line.

A global commands cannot be called from within itself.  For example,
Who's Playing can be called from within Fed. Comm-Link, but Fed. Comm-Link
cannot be called from within Fed. Comm-Link.

Create planet now outputs like previous versions for helper compatibility.

Long input lines, like non-wrapping chat lines, don't automatically continue
when max characters are entered.  A <CR> must end the line.  Input typed
beyond the max size of the line will not be accepted.

Refined Gary's auto-entry sector input at main command line so that a player
cannot enter an invalid sector.  For example, if the maximum number of
sectors in the game is 1000, and a player enters 101, the value is
automatically accepted since any fourth digit would put the sector over the
limit.  Also, if the user has entered 100, then the only further input
accepted would be a <CR>, <BS>, or the digit 0, as a 1-9 would put the
sector over the limit.

Major revision of input routines to guarantee handling of global commands,
time-on timeout, inactivity timeout, dropped carrier, etc, at all prompts.
Watch for and report minor changes in prompt functionality for compatibility
with helpers.

02/12/97

Fixed Corp fighters display, now shows corp number and corp name.

Planet "Take All" command now takes Equipment, Organics, and then Fuel.  The
order was reversed.

Citadel sector display now shows correct warps when user enters game on
planet.

Upgrading citadel now takes correct product amounts, and correct number of
days.

Can press space-bar to interrupt autopilot and bring up autopilot menu.

Grimy Trader now only reports 1 port on a trace, pending Gary's approval.

Planet scan now shows all totals for Personal and Corp.

Planet prompt is back to normal.

Robbing port now functional.

02/06/97

Added shield totals to Compute/Personal Planet scan and Corp/Corp Planet scan.

Fixed multiple bugs where alignment and/or experience change was not being
committed to user record.

Planetary Negotiation now allows maximum credit transfer amount to be entered,
rather than the traders on-hand credit amount.

Fixed rare general file bug that kept record changes from committing.

When buying a ship without trade-in, trader stays in original ship, and new
ship appears in orbit at stardock.

When selling an extra ship, asks for verification before completing the
deal.

Fixed "retreat from fighters" routine.  Can't retreat if previous sector was
a one-way warp, or if the trader transwarp in from a non-adjacent sector.

Attacking port won't cause negative stock percentages.

Warps out of sector show up at Citadel prompt.

Game pauses after new planet ansi screen.

02/05/97

Removed sexist reference to trader, using "his" in various locations.

Traders now recieve full messaging throughout the game, except:
  Start menu - No messaging.
  Planet, port, stardock, etc - No reports of sector activity.

  Note that traders in a citadel will receive full messaging, as if they
    were in the sector off planet.  This may change at Gary's request.

Messages are purged when user exits to Start Menu, instead of when user
exits the door.

No more autopilot prompt in destination sector.

Program should now exit from within any prompt at end of game time.

02/04/97

Long range scan now reports other users in scanned sectors.

Corp ships don't revert to personal when player transports in.

Leave colonists no longer displays "123" prompt.

Removed confusing message "Leaving Personal Fighters on Corporate Planet"
from Take/Leave Fighters function.  Fighters are always considered to be
corp or personal depending on Planet or Ship affiliation.

"Take/Leave Fighters" prompt now only one keypress (no enter required).

Fixed bug that resulted in multiple instances like the previous error.

Fixed problem with defensive rating of ports.

File lock attempts now time-out.  Default is a 10 second time-out, but this
can be altered.  Players getting stuck online during a locked-file routine
won't cause others to get stuck online.  After the time-out, they will be
booted from the game.

All halts are now accompanied by a write to the TWERR.LOG describing the
condition of the halt.

Comm-links and "Who's playing" are now global commands.  These can be invoked
from anywhere in the game except from within a global command, "Announcement",
"Send Mail", or while viewing docs.

Changed main menu to seperate global commands.

Changed comm-link prompts to make it more obvious when they are invoked.

Fixed "Etherprobe" routine to display something other than your current sector.

Added hidden "Back-track" key from the main command prompt, '<' (or just ','
to avoid excessive pressing of the shift key).  The routine moves
your ship to the last sector you visited.  This works well for adjacent port
pairs.

Fixed "Buy Ship" routine to eliminate record corruption due to dropped carrier
or system crash.

New ship created during "Buy Ship" won't be orphaned by a dropped carrier or
program crash prior to the completion of the routine.

Player on planet, stardock, or port when program crashes or carrier is dropped
won't remain hidden.  Only players remaining in a citadel will stay planet-/
port-side.

Fixed EXTERN so that it won't end in error if the message or global message
file is in use when it runs.  It reports that the file was locked, then
continues without purging it.

EXTERN can now run while users are in the game.

02/02/97

Long range scan now reports other users in scanned sectors.

Corp ships don't revert to personal when player transports in.

Leave colonists no longer displays "123" prompt.

Removed confusing message "Leaving Personal Fighters on Corporate Planet"
from Take/Leave Fighters function.  Fighters are always considered to be
corp or personal depending on Planet or Ship affiliation.

"Take/Leave Fighters" prompt now only one keypress (no enter required).

Fixed problem with defensive rating of ports.

01/29/97

Fixed a nasty file access error which could potentially destroy any type of
game record (ship, user, planet, etc).  This should be responsible for most
of the apparent bad pointer errors that have been cropping up.

Fixed various problems with destroyed ship routine.  Destroyed ships weren't
being made available as usable ship numbers, user records weren't being
updated properly, and some other probs I can't remember off hand.  This
should be working much better now, but I can't guarantee it's perfect.  Keep
an eye on it.


01/27/97

Citadel now reports other traders in the citadell.
